.. _what-a-game-looks-like:

What a game looks like
======================

A game will consist of a few sessions, perhaps three to six, depending on
interest and where the story goes. Each session, everyone gathers and tells a
story together, like a conversation. At certain points in the conversation, you
will trigger particular rules, which will then shape what sorts of things you
are expected and allowed to say.

Those rules will involve using the cards, the tokens, and things written on
your character sheet. More about the specifics later.

Each player should push towards their particular agenda, while allowing room
for contributions, suggestions, and consideration from everyone else at the
table. All the rules of polite conversation apply as ever.

.. todo:: Highlight these systems. They're crucial!

Gossip
------

As you play, you will see scene breaks; one bit of action or drama in one place
is over, and another begins elsewhere. At these breaks, anyone may call for
*Gossip*. Take a momentary break, and discuss the scene that just happened as
though you are the people in town, or the audience, mysteriously privy to all
that happened. Each player may ask about any of the reputations on their
character sheet, and the rest of the players (including the GM) should decide
together whether that character expressed or upheld that reputation. If they
did, give them a role token.

Reflection
----------

At the end of every *session*, each player takes a turn to tell the group
whether they hit any of the triggers for their passions. For the highest-rated
trigger they hit, they get that many passion tokens.  What's important here is
that they explain how their actions were in support of the desire, and thus
contextualize them for the table.

Present this as a small scene, of your character in repose and reflection.
Perhaps walking the moors, perhaps brooding in the tower-room, perhaps writing
in their journal by candle-light.
