Starting the game
=================

There are three things you need to start: a town, families, and
characters.  Create them in that order, with everyone working together.

To create the town, decide where it is in England. Is it in the West
Midlands, a sleepy market town surrounded by farmlands? Is it in the
Thames valley, a day's ride from London and a day from the ancient white
horse carved into the chalk hillside? Is it in the North, where once the
kings of Rheged ruled, and now mines and mills make some men rich while
others starve? Is it by the sea, or a place for fashionable invalids to
take the waters? Is it a haven for smugglers bringing goods in through
the twin perils of marauding French ships, and English revenue cutters?

That decided, name your town, and put a few landmarks on a piece of
paper in the middle of the table. Each player, including the GM, should
get the chance to place at least one. This is not an exercise in
cartography, but rather a quick sketch of the area. If the characters
are all from this town, then the players should at least all be on the
same page about what the area looks like.  For your landmarks, consider
not just the church, the pub, the market, but the great houses, the
sorts with names which act as the seats of major families.  Consider
also the strange and ancient spots: places like Wistman's Wood, the
Cerne Abbas Giant, or the stone circles all over England.

Next, make families. Each player, the GM included, should add one
family. The main characters will be from a subset of these. Choose a
family name, where they live, a general sense of their wealth and
status, and choose their *blood*. This is a boon that will be available
to any character who is of that family.

-  **Ash blood:** you may draw an extra card in any exertion where your
   creativity and inspiration is an asset.
-  **Hawthorn blood:** you start with +1 Aether.
-  **Hazel blood:** you may draw an extra card in any exertion where
   your knowledge, intelligence, or reason is an asset.
-  **Holly blood:** if someone would have leverage over you in a
   petition because of their superior rank, instead, they don't.
-  **Oaken blood:** you may draw an extra card in any exertion where
   your stamina, heartiness, or durability is an asset.
-  **Rowan blood:** you may draw an extra card in any exertion where you
   are resisting the effects of magic worked against you.
-  **Willow blood:** you may draw an extra card in any exertion where
   your observational skill is an asset.
-  **Yew blood:** you may draw an extra card in any exertion where you
   face death as a risk.

An Example
----------

Anna, Beatriz, Cal, and Dan are playing, with Elias running.

They decide they want a sleepy, idyllic, rural town, a place like
Highbury from Jane Austen's *Emma*. They roll with that: the town is
somewhere in Surrey, a few days ride from London. But most people here
have no need to ever go into the city, living as they do in God's own
garden, paradise on earth. It's a very parochial village; if you're from
here, you're from here, and if you're not, you're looked on with
suspicion.

They name the town Stanham, or Stanham-upon-Wey, if you're from out of
town.  The River Wey is one of the tributaries of the Thames, which puts
them in a rich agricultural river valley, but not on a major artery of
trade.

Anna knows right away what landmark she wants to put: the ruins of an
abbey, destroyed, like most of them, in the reign of King Henry VIII.
It's achingly picturesque, perched on a hill, with half-tumbled walls
covered in ivy. The sort of place that poets like Byron would love to be
*inspired* by, if they could ever come to a backwater town like this
one.

Beatriz considers a little, and adds a place a little more down to
earth: the Black Dog, the local pub. It's the only place for travellers
to stay, but it's also the town's public living room, so it's got some
baked in contradictions.  It's right in the heart of town, too, so it
contrasts with the old abbey nicely.

Cal goes for a site of natural beauty: a bend in the river, with a huge
old willow draped over it. There's a local legend about a lovelorn girl
drowning herself there, but that doesn't keep people from picnicking in
the shade of the tree.

Dan wants another kind of community centre, not the pub. He adds St.
Martin's, the parish church. It's small, but well-kept. The village
takes pride in the stained glass rose window, and pays to maintain it.

Elias tops things off with a newly-opened circulating library in the
middle of town, just across the square from the Black Dog. The
proprietor is hopeful that a small sleepy town like this will still be
able to support his endeavour, and is constantly trying to get more
people to sign up for memberships.

Now, they decide on families.

Anna adds the Foggs, a family of respectable but not genteel farmers.
They make good cider, and get invited to fill out local dances if no
families of better quality can attend. They have *Willow blood*, and
thus a bonus to observation.

Beatriz adds the Fitzgibbons. They are one of the first families of
Stanham, and their seat is Stowe Hall, a great house with grounds that
stretch down to the river. They are a poetic family, and have *Ash
blood*.

Cal adds the Masons, who live at Shipley. They are genteel (in that they
do not work their own land, but have tenant farmers to do so), but
barely. Some members of the family probably have taken up professions,
such as the law, the clergy, or medicine. They have *Hazel blood*, and
are inclined to be a bit academic.

Dan puts the Taylors down. They are a sprawling clan, and almost anyone
could be related to them. They have been in Surrey as long as the hills,
and they have *Holly blood*: differences in rank mean almost nothing to
a Taylor.

Finally, Elias puts down the Clearidges. They live at Brock Abbey, the
great house on the lands that once belonged to the now-ruined abbey.
They have *Yew blood*, and have a bit of a reputation as daredevils and
adventurers. Needless to say, many of their sons have gone into the
military as officers.

And thus, Stanham is ready. Now, on to making the characters.
