.. gm-rules:

Rules for the GM
================

The GM controls the NPCs and provides adversity. It's their role to
reinforce the strictures of society, the dangers of magic, and the
difficulties of human connections.

The GM should write down what we know about NPCs on their index cards,
and particularly how they feel about the PCs and each other. This will
help them drive the action from the NPCs' point of view. Remember to
think about and communicate what will happen if the PCs don't act.

NPCs also get starting social role tokens (from 3 to 5) based on their
rank.

In a conflict, an emotional outburst puts a PC's reputation at risk. If
they never make an outburst, they stand a real chance of not getting
what they want. So, outbursts are saying "this is worth the risk". And
if it never is worth the risk for someone, *push harder*. Loveless
marriages, disownment and penury, abusive masters, all this and more are
real risks. Think about what will happen if the PCs don't intervene for
their own interests, and push for that.

*Yes this is a vicious cycle.* If you damage your reputation, getting
more role tokens becomes harder, and thus you are more likely to have to
risk your reputation in future.

The PCs are showing you at every moment what they most fear losing or
happening. Use that. Push at them. Make their world unstable, pulling
apart at the seams. There is no stable *status quo* in Regency World!

Now, the fairy offers absolution, victory, revenge, power. But it is a
cat playing with mice, a child playing with dolls. It has no real
conception of your wants, only how you can amuse it. It half-listens,
then give you the rope to hang yourself.

The fairy should show up soon, but not immediately; basically as soon as
someone's been pushed into a spot where they might need a spell to get
what they want. Basically, the arc of an *Arcadia* story should dip low
quickly, then up-tick with the fairy's intervention, then wobble.

Desperation
-----------

Let's be clear: you have to be desperate to make a deal with a fairy.
Everyone, but *everyone*, knows better. But sometimes, you see no other
choice---or rather, the other choice is *worse*.

When you have one kind of power in a world that strips you of power, you
will use it, you will exercise it, you will rely on it. If that is being
trusted with secrets, you will wield secrets as a weapon. If you have
sexual appeal, you will wield sexuality as a weapon. If you have no
further to fall but to a sinful and unmourned grave, you will wield
recklessness as a weapon.

Not every character will be desperate! But at least one or two must be.
And those are the ones to whom the fairy offers their fondest dreams.

Perils of the Period
--------------------

It is easy to think of the worst that could happen in *Arcadia* as
somewhat gentle, but death, dishonour, disappointment, disease, and
poverty aren't even the worst of it. When you bargain with a fairy, you
risk your very soul and future---or that of those closest and dearest to
you.

As the GM, you should have some idea of what the worst thing facing each
character is, and you should communicate it, too. Some characters may
live a hair's breadth away from starvation, while others may sometimes
risk only their reputation, but the mightiest, it is said, have the
furthest to fall.

Don't be coy about it, either: make sure that the players understand
what they risk. But also, make sure that they know what they are hoping
to achieve: a stable position serving in a great house may be a lofty
goal for some, and a peerage and a wealthy marriage may be within reach
of others.

Knowing what's at stake will help you with every other part of the
system, in particular offering bargains as a fairy.

Fairy stories
-------------

So, this is a game about people who gain the notice of a fairy. That is,
it is a game of fairy stories. You might be forgiven for asking why. To
my mind, fairy stories are stories that warn against easy answers and
simplistic understanding. They remind us of the complexities of the
situations we can find ourselves in. Wishing and hoping and having a
fairy "fix" things for you rarely turns out well, no matter how valid
your wishes and hopes may be. That is to say: fairy stories are about
the value of *doing the work* and the risks of trying to take
short-cuts.

How, then, do you do that in this game? Especially given that everyone
knows better than to trust what a fairy says, how do you make the
temptation real?

There are two parts, ultimately: the carrot and the stick. The stick is
obvious: for all but the most privileged, life in Regency England is a
collection of restraints and constraints, disappointments and
compromises. The carrot is this: the fairy must offer real fixes for
small problems, so that when they offer dangerous and broken fixes for
larger problems, they have a trustworthy track record to back them up.
They are not a constant exercise in deception and punishment. They are a
pusher, offering what you want now, such that when you *need* them, they
can demand more than you can pay.

Techniques and Tools
--------------------

**Acting is Reacting:** keep the camera on the listener, not the
speaker. Show their reactions.

**Breathing Space:** not every scene should involve "that won't be so
easy". Scenes like that tend to be dramatic up-beats, where the
character faces the things that make their story interesting and their
life difficult. After, allow them a scene of downtime, showcasing their
passions or their social role. Then cut to another character and focus
on their story a little.

**Let them be human:** the social norms of the period are real and
present, but even in Austen's work, you sometimes see people breaking
these norms without remark. Humans are humans and every supposed rule of
a society has occasional exceptions. Sometimes first names are used,
sometimes servants aren't woken in the middle of the night.

**Understatement:** you can achieve a feeling of magical realism by
maintaining understatement, a calm matter-of-fact aspect to describing
magic. To paraphrase Mark Twain, do not "glance around from face to
face, collecting applause". This is what Gabriel García Márquez
describes as speaking "with a brick face". You are simply observing
these wondrous things, but not being awed by them. Conversely, if you
want the game to feel more like a Gothic novel, do just the opposite:
make it clear how overcome you are by what you are describing.

**Elide the small-talk:** It's easy to think of empty small-talk as a
staple of the Austenian genre, but you'll notice that, with the notable
exception of *Emma*, where it serves a particular purpose, small-talk is
usually quoted only indirectly: "they talked of the weather" rather than
a blow-by-blow direct quotation. You can do that too. "After
pleasantries are exchanged, Col. Colquhoun gets to his purpose, and asks
you if you have heard the news from Hastings, that Miss Redgrave is
apparently becoming very close with a Mr. Hawkins. He's trying to get a
reaction out of you. He wants to know if you have feelings for her."

**Play to make them reveal themselves:** As the GM, you are most
interested in the inner lives of the characters you see at the table.
Not in their victories or failures, *per se*, but in how those victories
and failures let them show their true colors.
