# Arcadia

[TOC]

## About the Game

This is Regency England, but like _Shades of Milk and Honey_: parlour-magic is
common, and many (but not most) people can perform some small cantrips.

Your characters will pursue their various desires, navigating the Scylla of
society's expectations and the Charybdis of their own improper desires.

They will also likely draw the attention of a Fairy, a powerful creature of
magic, fickle and dangerous.

## Getting Started

One player will be the GM. It is their job to provide adversity, stir the pot,
and keep the status quo from settling. They play with a slightly different set
of rules.

The other players will be the main characters. It is their job to see their
characters safely to the realization of their goals, or to see those goals
evolve and change as the characters grow.

Let's start with how the players get ready:

Shuffle the Social Roles, and deal three to each player. Each player chooses
one from those they were dealt to play. Be comfortable with the fact that you
may end up playing a character of a different gender than you are used to, or a
different class. These provide a set of initial relationships, and a way to get
more **Cards**. See below for how you use these.

Each player chooses a name for their character.

Each player chooses two Dark Desires for their character. These provide both an
ambition, and a way to gain more **Tokens**. See below for how you use these.

Go around, answering the relationship questions and filling out the community
your characters live in. Be sure to share some characters: one person's boon
companion may be another's cousin, one person's rival may be another's
guardian. There is a balance to strike: you want enough supporting characters
to make the world feel populated, but you want enough shared relationships to
keep the main characters interacting with each other.

Go around, answering the Dark Desire questions, using the characters already
created. Now you will have some history with them.

Decide how to allocate 10 points among extra cards, higher token cap, and more
relationship slots.

## Play

You want to get your way:

 - Make someone feel hurt
 - Make someone feel impassioned
 - Make someone feel listened to
 - Make someone get out of your way
 - Make someone obey you
 - Make someone promise you something
 - Make someone reveal to you what they are thinking or feeling
 - Make someone see your point

So, you can either spend a token for a:

 - Moment of enchantment
 - Moment of fury
 - Moment of honesty
 - Moment of insight

(When you spend a token, all players [yourself and the GM included] may discard
a card and draw a new one.)

(Spending tokens is usually an option of last-resort; they're also your
hit-points, so be careful!)

Or put down a card, to set an obstacle. Your opponent may then put down one or
more cards to counteract.

 - Narrate what you say or do in line with the (highest) card's suit
    - Spades: Wit, charm
    - Hearts: Calm, reason
    - Clubs: Status, will
    - Diamonds: Perception, taste
 - Your opponent may put down one or more cards, to total more than the card
   you put down. If they put down more than one card, the GM may dictate some
   additional cost or compromise:
    - Lose one token per card played beyond the first.
    - Some additional fictional cost, depending on circumstances (see Future
      Cards, below, or an _Apocalypse World_ style 7-9 result.)
 - Face cards count as 10, may trigger special effects.

Sometimes, you will run out of cards in your deck. Just shuffle your discard
and turn it back into your deck. You keep your cards and tokens between scenes.

Between sessions, note down how many cards you have, and how many tokens, but
the particular cards and the makeup of your discard don't matter.

If you have no tokens, you are down and out. You may recover some later, but
not in this scene. You are pliable, the fight has gone out of you. You will
acquiesce.

### Influence

Even if you are not present in a scene, you may be able to play a card. If a
character in your Social Role Relationships list is present, you can influence
their action by playing a card and describing a brief flashback to an
interaction the two of you had that might influence them one way or another.

You may only play one influence card per strength of the relationship. **TODO**

## The GM

The GM may throw down cards to have an NPC get their way, or deal with a PC
getting their way. The GM starts with a hand of two cards, plus one per PC.
They draw a card whenever a PC **TODO**.

    Meditation: I think that the better route is to have the GM just set
    difficulties, however much I don't like that as a pattern. Iunno. I really
    like the GM "rolling" against the players, rather than fixing difficulties.

    So, where's that show up? Dogs. Cortex. In both cases, the GM gets a pool
    based on fictional whatnot.

### Future Cards

The GM may make and place a Future card on the table whenever circumstances
dictate (typically when a player has spent tokens or had a compromise with the
cards).

**TODO**

This is an index card with one of the following:

#### A Bad Reputation

#### A Curse

#### A Letter

#### A Love

#### A Promise

#### A Rumour

#### A Warning

At the start of the game, a special Future is placed on the table:

#### A Fairy

## Face Cards

**TODO**

### Spades

#### Jack

#### Queen

#### King

### Hearts

#### Jack

#### Queen

#### King

### Clubs

#### Jack

#### Queen

#### King

### Diamonds

#### Jack

#### Queen

#### King

## Dark Desires

So, I’m envisioning these as functioning a bit like _Lady Blackbird_, _The
Shadow of Yesterday_, or _Marvel Heroic Roleplaying_ keys: each has a few
points under them, and when you hit that point, you get the reward for it (1,
3, 7 points or something).  Some might also have “burn this key” type points,
after which you have to chose a new key.

**TODO** rewrite some of these triggers, add variant rewards.

### Mad, Bad and Dangerous to Know

You are a person of gigantic passions: great mirths and great melancholies.
What is the outlet for your passions?

 - When you emotionally abandon someone
 - When you destroy the reputation of someone close to you towards your own
   ends
 - When you kill someone in a fit of passion

###Forbidden love

You love someone who you shouldn’t. Why shouldn’t you? Is it a matter of class,
sex, or something else?

 - When you steal a kiss, touch, or other token of affection despite the risk
   of discovery.
 - When you do something unsafe for your love.
 - When you reveal your love to the world?

### Unrequited love

You love someone who does not or cannot love you back. What keeps you from
their esteem?

 - When you put yourself in danger or difficulty to impress your beloved.
 - When you harm another to gain the favor of your beloved
 - When do something self-sacrificing for your love’s greater happiness

### Vengeance

You wish to see another ruined. How did they harm you?

 - When you brood over slights, real or imagined
 - When you harm your foe at great cost to yourself
 - When your triumph over your nemesis is complete

### Secrets Man was not Meant to Know

You desire understanding of the secrets of life and death—and not just to know,
but to control. Why do you need this?

 - When you break the laws of God and Man
 - When you harm an innocent by your pursuits
 - When you create life out of nothingness.

### Ambition

You wish to rise above your place, through marriage, valour, low cunning, or
some means else. You will not be satisfied until a coronet (or perhaps, even, a
crown!) rests on your head. Who do you need to best in this respect?

### Entitlement (greed + ambition)

You are certain that the world owes you something more. The problems of your
position or life circumstance are not your fault, and are mere obstacles on the
way to claiming your true place of importance. Who do you blame for your
current lot?

 - When people tolerate your pretentions.
 - When you slight someone above your station and get away with it.
 - When you rise above your station.

### Decadence (Greed)

You have never had enough, and perhaps never will have enough. How does the
money you do have escape your purse so quickly?

 - When you display your tastes excessively
 - When you harm or endanger yourself through your indulgence
 - When you pull another into your addictions inescapably

### Luxury (Sensuality)

### Playing puppeteer (Control)

Like Emma, you see others’ lives as toys for your own amusement. You wish to
arrange the lives of those around you just so. Who is the hero(ine) and who is
the villain in your headcanon?

 - When you make someone beg, grovel or plead with you.
 - When someone agrees with you against their best interests and better
   judgment.
 - When someone places their life, fortune or reputation on the line for your
   benefit.

### Leveling distinctions (Jealousy)

### Lust for Glory (Pride)

### A religious one? À la “spit in the eye of the devil/God”.

### Nihilism

## Social Roles (Dharmas)

It’ll be a struggle to make these gender-neutral; I think taking a page from
Sagas of the Icelanders is probably the best bet: make most of them heavily
gendered, and make a couple that are neutral.

**TODO** Rewrite the non-actionable and too-similar card draw triggers. These
are going to be _primary_ now that the cards are the only real
action-resolution system. Need to be able to get them clearly.

### Lady

A young lady, from a good family, with some hope of marriage. Your honour is
your family’s honour. Your honour is both positive and negative: being
beautiful, charming, witty and accomplished can brighten it; being wanton,
vain, shallow or crude can tarnish it. Be gentle and kind to those beneath you,
and obedient and respectful to those above you.

Draw a card when:

 - you demonstrate your accomplishments,
 - ...
 - or make those around you feel at ease.

Tell us who is:

 - Your father (or other pater familias)
 - Your lady’s maid
 - Your best friend

Initial hand: 5

### Gentleman

A single man, in possession of a good fortune. Let a lady decide the degree of
acquaintance. A servant cannot impinge upon your honour, but neither can you
suffer insolence from them. Another gentleman insulting you, your family, or a
lady of your close acquaintance is a stain on your honour.

Draw a card when:

 - you display good judgment,
 - are warm and welcoming,
 - or defend the honour of someone close to you.

Tell us who is:

 - Your cousin
 - The tradesman you owe the most
 - Your boon companion

Initial hand: 5

### Servant

A young man or woman in service to someone of quality. Be neither seen nor
heard, except when needed. Protect the honour of your master’s house in the
broader world. Discharge your duty to the family first; there is always more
you can do.

Draw a card when:

 - you keep your master’s confidence,
 - act on their needs before they ask you,
 - or when you subordinate your own interests to those of your master.

Tell us who is:

 - Your master
 - The apple of your eye
 - Your confidante

Initial hand: 3

### Governess

A young lady of indifferent family, but with enough education to hold a
position with a wealthy family as not-quite-a-servant. Set a good example for
the children. Demonstrate your refinement and accomplishments. Ensure the moral
behavior of your charges.

Draw a card when:

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Tell us who is:

 - Your employer?
 - Your charge or charges?
 - Your best friend?

Initial hand: 4

### Ward

You are expected to be ...

Draw a card when:

 - you obey your parents or guardian,
 - reflect well upon your family,
 - or demonstrate promise.

Tell us who:

 - Is your guardian?
 - You rely on for financial support?
 - Sees you as a threat, obstacle or imposition?

Initial hand: 4

### Spinster

You are expected to deviate from (reject? or wish fruitlessly you could conform
to?) your society’s feminine ideal, have secret wealth or knowledge, and draw
strength from your relationships with other women.

Draw a card when:

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Tell us who is:

 - ...
 - Your dearest sister?
 - The one who got away?

Initial hand: 4

### Officer

You are expected to be disciplined, honorable and patriotic.

Draw a card when:

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Tell us who:

 - Is your commanding officer?
 - Did you leave behind?
 - ...

Initial hand: 4

### Clergyman

...

Draw a card when:

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Tell us who is:

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Initial hand: 4

### Scholar

You are expected to be erudite, considered, and informed.

Draw a card when:

 - you teach someone a valuable lesson,
 - are the voice of reason,
 - or when you learn something that furthers your studies.

Tell us who is:

 - Your rival?
 - Your school-chum?
 - Your pupil? (Whether they agree or not?)

Initial hand: 4

### Invalid

You are expected to be home-bound, solicitous of others’ health, and ...

Draw a card when:

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Tell us who is:

 - Your physician?
 - Your source of comfort?
 - Thinks you’re playing it up for sympathy?

Initial hand: 4

### Vagabond

You are expected to be needy, itinerant, and thankful.

Draw a card when:

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Tell us who:

 - Is after you?
 - Is your drinking companion?
 - Gives you charity?

Initial hand: 3

### Magician

You are expected to be mysterious, wise, and unconventional.

Draw a card when:

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Tell us who:

 - Is your patron?
 - Wishes to be your student?
 - ...

Initial hand: 4
