# Arcadia

2015-06-15 BRAINSTORM: under all possible designs, you must be able to ante
with zero tokens, even if the possible stakes are diminished or costly. Under
all possible designs, you must be able to be dealt in with no cards, even if
that means pure risk.

So if we do the ante tokens to set stakes, blackjack thing, you can ante zero,
and you can be dealt in entirely randomly. If we do the high card thing, you
can ante zero, but you probably need at least one card to resist a challenge
(the zero cards thing is if you go unchallenged). See?

## Todo:

 1. _Mechanics_

    Token draw needs to be upped.

 2. _XP and Advancement_

    End-of-season questionnaire, inc. "Have you challenged your desires" or
    whatever.

    Relatedly, new season should include rewriting goals and re-assigning NPC
    cards. Possibly adding some new NPCs, especially if relationships with any
    existing NPCs have been resolved.

 3. _Families_

    Can have powers/traits/resources/qualities that are accessible to members
    of the family. Some may particularly effect or magnify with others in the
    group. Marriage may let you adopt the other family's powers, but still
    count as in your family for the in-group effects. Families may be grow-able
    with sheets and XP and stuff.

    Names are kinda relevant here, too. "The mere use of a person's Christian
    name is electric."

 4. _Social Roles_

    Fill these out, at least for currently active ones and obvious ones. Make
    sure that card draws are mostly proactive; no more than one reactive draw
    per.

    Remember the negatives, though: "don't trash-talk people", etc. for
    Gentleman.

 5. _Weather_

    Important for making things feel really _English_. Ties to the Romantic and
    the mysterious, too.

 6. _Location_

    There are three major places: town, country, seaside. Each comes with its
    own constraints and options. But also, sense-of-place. Landscape, houses,
    history. The eerieness of the English countryside.

 7. _Magic and Fairies_

    What does this do _for the story_? It's clear what it does for the
    characters in the story, less so for the players.

    John's suggestion is that the current mechanics can be reflavored to
    reflect magic. That the PCs have access to tokens, which they can use to
    press unconventional desires into being, marks them as special, as
    fairy-touched. Perhaps the Desires are how they refuel, but the grace of
    the fairy is why they can do anything with these tokens in the first place.

    So, every few uses, they have to settle up with the fairy, do what it
    wants.

    Perhaps, even, tokens are not spent to set stakes, but rather to overcome
    card situations entirely. You get fewer, get them more rarely, but can use
    them to blow contests out of the water. Probably start with zero? So, the
    GM simply says "that might not be so easy" when you press that you want
    something (no tokens needed), and then you spend cards or a token.

    And then the fairy can make demands of you, that cost tokens to resist?

    Perhaps a fairy's demand cuts them off from tokens until they complete it,
    like putting your soul in hock in _Poison'd_.

## Notes:

PCs need to get their face cards more.

Token spends need clearer fictional triggers. The GM needs surface to impose
opposition.

Games are better when they ask questions than when they provide answers. This
game asks this question:

There are three paths you can take: following your passions, following the
expectations of society, or finding a balance between them. All three come with
costs and benefits. Can you live with your choice?

So all three of passions, position, or balance need to be viable games to play,
with their own feels.

NB: add a list of kinds of relationships, inc. the very important
false-friends: Drawlight, Lucy Steele, etc.

NB: Chapter 15 of Emma. Just, all of it.

NB: This is a game that lives or dies by the dialogue. Speak in character!

[TOC]

## About the Game

This is Regency England, but like _Shades of Milk and Honey_ or post-revival
_Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell_: parlour-magic is common, and many (but not
most) people can perform some small cantrips.

Your characters will pursue their various desires, navigating the Scylla of
society's expectations and the Charybdis of their own potentially improper
desires.

(Elinor and Marianne, Apollonian and Dionysian, Enlightenment and Romanticism,
Head and Heart.)

They will also likely draw the attention of a Fairy, a powerful creature of
magic, fickle and dangerous.

## Getting Started

One player will be the GM. It is their job to provide adversity, stir the pot,
and keep the status quo from settling. They play with a slightly different set
of rules.

The other players will be the main characters. It is their job to see their
characters safely to the realization of their goals, or to see those goals
evolve and change as the characters grow.

Let's start with how the players get ready:

Shuffle the **Social Roles**, and deal three to each player. Each player
chooses one from those they were dealt to play. Be comfortable with the fact
that you may end up playing a character of a different gender than you are used
to, or a different class. These provide a set of initial relationships, and a
way to get more **Cards**. See below for how you use these.

Each player chooses a name for their character.

Each player chooses two **Desires** for their character. These provide both an
ambition, and a way to gain more **Tokens**. See below for how you use these.

Go around, answering the relationship questions and filling out the community
your characters live in. Be sure to share some characters: one person's boon
companion may be another's cousin, one person's rival may be another's
guardian. There is a balance to strike: you want enough supporting characters
to make the world feel populated, but you want enough shared relationships to
keep the main characters interacting with each other.

Go around, answering the Desire questions, using the characters already
created. Now you will have some history with them.

Decide how to allocate 10 points among extra cards, higher token cap, and more
relationship slots.

Players' decks start with the cards 2, 3, 4, 5 in each suit, plus the ones they
bought.

The GM gets ready by paying attention, asking pointed questions, and thinking
about the situation as a whole. They should write down notable NPCs on index
cards, and assign a card from their deck to each.

## Names

There is a very particular character to English names.

Masculine names may include Charles, Clive, Cyril, Edward, Frank, George,
Henry, Hugh, James, John, Malcolm, Nathaniel, Nigel, Philip, Ralph, Richard,
Robert, Rupert, Simon, Stephen, Thomas, Wesley, William, or many surnames.

Feminine names may include Alice, Anne, Augusta, Caroline, Catherine, Dorcas,
Elizabeth, Emma, Georgiana, Gillian, Grace, Harriet, Imogen, Isabella, Jane,
Lucy, Lydia, Madeline, Mary, Matilda, Patricia, Philippa, Regina, Susan, or
feminized versions of many masculine names.

Surnames may include Ambrose, Arkwright, Collins, dâ€™Arcy, Ent, Fairfax,
Farquhar, Fawkes, Fetherstonhaugh, Fogg, Forster, Fox, Gardiner, Godown, Guest,
Hartpence, Hillpot, Hunt, King, Knightly, Lawshe, Lequear, Lestrange, Lloyd,
Mason, Orcutt, Philips, Quick, Rochester, Silverthorn, Smith, St. John, Stout,
Urquhart, Westenra, Wintermute, Woodhouse, Woolverton.

Estates names may include Beaulieu, Bracken, Brakebills, Brock, Dinmore,
Exmoor, Gosford, Hatfield, Hurtfew, Longbourne, Longmere, Mansfield, Mereworth,
Norris, Pemberley, Radbourne, Savoy, Shipley, Stowe, Sulgrave, Tattershall,
Thornlea, Thorpe Constantine, Trent, Upper Braithwaite, Walton.

Estates may be described as Court, Park, Place, Castle, House, Manor, Abbey,
Hall, Lodge, Grove, Downs, Hill, Priory, Grange, Parsonage.

## Play

In the course of play, you may want something from another character. This may
be to counter a demand they place on you, or a wholly new demand of your own.
Simply spend one, two, or three tokens, depending on the scope of the demand. A
single token is for a small demand or compromise, two tokens for a major demand
or compromise, and three for an absolute demand or no compromise.

You get what you ask for unless the GM, or another player involved, says "but
it won't be so easy". They then put down a card from their hand (though the GM
may also use an NPC card, see below). They describe how their character or NPC
opposes (though the GM may also describe how social forces or your own
character's feelings get in the way, see below).

You then have three options:

  - Concede. Accept the rebuttal and back down. Describe how you fail or are
    overcome yourself, and sell it.
  - Resist effectively. Play a single card of equal or higher value to the card
    opposing you (Jacks are 11, Queens are 12, Kings are 13, Aces are 14), and
    describe how you completely overcome the obstacle. Sell it!
  - Resist at cost. Play more than one card totalling more than the opposing
    card (again, same values for Jack, Queen, King, Ace). Describe how you
    overcome the obstacle, but the other player may describe the cost you
    suffer or the risk that comes to pass.

In any case, the tokens you spent are gone.

Sometimes, you will run out of cards in your deck. Just shuffle your discard
and turn it back into your deck. You keep your cards and tokens between scenes.

Between sessions, note down how many cards you have, and how many tokens, but
the particular cards and the makeup of your discard don't matter.

If you have no tokens, you are down and out. You may recover some later, but
not in this scene. You are pliable, the fight has gone out of you.

### Influence

Even if you are not present in a scene, you may be able to play a card. If a
character in your Relationships list is present, you can influence their action
by playing a card as an obstacle or to overcome an obstacle and describing a
brief flashback to an interaction the two of you had that might influence them
one way or another.

This card can be used to either set an obstacle, or to contribute (or wholly
suffice) for overcoming an obstacle. You may not, however, play multiple cards
to overcome an obstacle; the character in question must be willing to play the
other cards needed, or you withdraw your card.

### Growth and Change

At the end of a season, each character should go through this questionnaire:

  - TODO get some XP for questions?

You can spend XP one-for-one to:

  - Add to your max tokens.
  - Add a number card to your deck.

You can spend XP two-for-one to:

  - Add a face card to your deck.
  - Add a relationship slot and fill it in.

You can spend XP three-for-one to:

  - Add an ace to your deck.

## The GM

The GM's role is to stir the pot; the players need to be kept on their toes, in
a state of dynamic tension. The initial situation will help. As the GM, your
best tool in the initial situation is pointed questions: make sure that
everyone has complex relationships with each other, and conflicting
relationships with NPCs.

After the initial situation, the GM has two main tools to keep the situation
complex: NPCs and feelings. At every moment, stay alert for the possibility of
saying "that won't be so easy" and provide a "because" that comes back to an
NPC (their expectations, feelings, relationship with the PC), or the PC's own
feelings.

> There are some games where the GM pushes, and then asks "what do you do
> now?". This is not, usually, that game. In this game, players will be
> proactive, and you will complicate their attempts at action. The players have
> a lot of control over the outcomes of those moments of uncertainty, so by
> prodding them regularly, you ask them which complications they're willing to
> accept and which they're willing to spend resources to overcome.

> Of course, you can and should _also_ prompt them to action with requests,
> demands, expectations from NPCs! This is crucial. Make NPCs expect things of
> the PCs, make them demand and assume. Make them plead, request, impose. Only
> by doing this will you be able to prompt the PCs to spend tokens, allowing
> you to wheel around with the occasional "that won't be so easy"!

In each moment of uncertainty, answer (for yourself) two questions:

  - How is this hard? Is it because of conflicted feelings, acting out of
    place, physical difficulty, or something else?
  - How is this risky? What might happen in the worst case? Maybe the PC will
    feel worse, a relationship will be strained, a misunderstanding will arise,
    the PC will develop a bad reputation, someone will be out a large sum of
    money, or something else.

The NPCs, present or otherwise, are a rich source of these complications. The
NPCs have desires and feelings and relationships of their own, and you should
absolutely position them between PCs to generate conflict. PC-NPC-PC triangles,
right?

### In Concrete Terms

Whenever the GM sees an opportunity, they can say "It won't be so easy!",
explain why, and put down a card representing that difficulty. They may use a
card from their hand, or a card from an NPC (which see below).

The GM starts with two cards, plus one per PC. They refresh their hand once at
the start of each session, and once in the middle. It is a pacing mechanism.

You also have a card for each NPC. These cards are each usable once per
session. These cards do not live in your deck, but are extracted and kept by
the NPCs' index cards. At the end of a season, you can re-assign these cards
based on the evolving roles of the NPCs in question. If you need a new NPC on
short notice, simply draw a card for them, and interpret it.

The GM may also use a character's situation or feelings as an obstacle. Some
suggested difficult states:

  - A Bad Reputation
  - A Curse
  - A Love
  - A Promise
  - A Rumour
  - A Warning
  - Anger
  - Illness
  - Intoxication
  - Shame

### Techniques and Tools

**Acting is Reacting**: keep the camera on the listener, not the speaker.

**Breathing Space**: not every scene should involve "that won't be so easy".
Scenes like that tend to be dramatic up-beats, where the character faces the
things that make their story interesting and their life difficult. After, allow
them a scene of downtime, showcasing their Desires or their Social Role. Then
cut to another character and focus on their story a little.

**Let them be human**: the social norms of the period are real and present, but
even in Austen's work, you sometimes see people breaking these norms without
remark. Humans are humans and every supposed rule of a society has occasional
exceptions. Sometimes first names are used, sometimes servants aren't woken in
the middle of the night.

**Who's Who**: when you need a new NPC, simply draw a card, interpret it,
describe the character and assign them that card. At the end of the season,
when NPC cards are re-assigned, their card may change, but for now, be guided
by how fate describes them.

**Understatement**: you can achieve a feeling of magical realism by maintaining
understatement, a calm matter-of-fact aspect to describing magic. To paraphrase
Mark Twain, do not "glance around from face to face, collecting applause". This
is what Gabriel GarcÃ­a MÃ¡rquez describes as speaking "with a brick face". You
are simply observing these wondrous things, but not being awes by them.
Conversely, if you want the game to feel more like a gothic novel, do just the
opposite: make it clear how overcome you are by what you are describing.

## Face Cards

Lots of ways they can have an effect: when in deck, at purchase, when in hand,
when played, when in trash, etc. They can be fictional-effect primary. They can
generate Consequences. They can replenish Willpower. They can screw with suit
meanings.

When you get a face card, do not put it into your deck. Each game, you put your
face cards out in front of you. When you use its power, tap it. You can't use
it again while it's tapped. They untap at the start of a season.

TODO: other untap triggers.

TODO: tapped effects, ranging from weakened to negative.

### Jack of Spades: the Whisperer

When you play this card, name a rumour about another character. This rumour has
or will spread throughout the community. Though most people believe it, the
origin of the rumour remains unknown. The GM should make a Consequence
describing the rumour, and place a card on it.

### Queen of Spades: the Widow

You gain strength from another's misfortune. You may discard this card when
someone suffers misfortune to gain three tokens (up to your limit).

### King of Spades: The Nonesuch

Your behavior is exquisite. When you discard this card, you may hold the
undivided attention of everyone who can see or hear you as long as you are
dancing, talking, or otherwise positioning yourself as a center of attention.

### Jack of Hearts: the Rake

You have a way of slipping a reputation. You may discard this card to negate
any concerns or effects of a bad reputation for a scene.

### Queen of Hearts: the Comforter

People who come to you with their problems are soothed and come away
strengthened. You may discard this card in a scene to give someone else three
tokens (up to their limit).

### King of Hearts: The Philosopher

Your reasoning is exquisite. When you discard this card, you may convince an
individual or a small audience of a single truth. The GM should make a
Consequence for them reflecting this belief.

### Jack of Clubs: the Mule

You are stubborn and will not let the opinions of others sway you. You may
discard this card to raise the stakes instead of spending tokens.

### Queen of Clubs: the Companion

You are strong, but strongest when acting beside another. When you act in
support of a friend, you may play this card to add five to the value of
whatever card they have played. This does not count as using multiple cards to
overcome an obstacle.

### King of Clubs: The Nobleman

Your dignity is exquisite. When you discard this card, you may insist on
obedience for one interaction with immediate scope. Debts will be forgiven,
doors will be opened, forgiveness will be given.

### Jack of Diamonds: the Tempter

When you play this card, you may make a particular offer to another PC
particularly tempting. If they agree, and carry through on it, they may regain
three tokens, up to their maximum.

### Queen of Diamonds: the Seer

You have an uncanny insight. Discard this card to ask any other player (or the
GM) a short question, which they must answer truthfully. This comes to your
character as a flash of insight.

### King of Diamonds: The Artist

Your taste and skill are exquisite. When you discard this card, you may create
a work of staggering beauty: a poem, a painting, a song, whatever is
appropriate. All who experience it will be moved.

## Desires

When you sate a Desire, get one token. If doing so exposes you to risk or
danger, get two tokens instead.

These change slowly, if at all. At the end of a season, you may get the chance
to change one or both Desires.

### Mad, Bad and Dangerous to Know

You are a person of gigantic passions: great mirths and great melancholies.
What is the outlet for your passions? Sate this desire every time someone
devoted to you suffers because of your relationship.

### Forbidden love

You love someone who you shouldn't. Why shouldn't you? Is it a matter of class,
sex, or something else? Sate this desire when you express your love to your
lover.

### Unrequited love

You love someone who does not or cannot love you back. What keeps you from
their esteem? Sate this desire when you make a decision based on this secret
affection or when you somehow show it indirectly.

### Vengeance

You wish to see another ruined. How did they harm you? Sate this desire when
you undermine, harm, or malign them.

### Secrets Man was not Meant to Know

You desire understanding of the secrets of life and deathâ€”and not just to know,
but to control. Why do you need this? Sate this desire when you break the laws
of God and Man.

### Ambition

You wish to rise above your place, through marriage, valour, low cunning, or
some means else. You will not be satisfied until a coronet (or perhaps, even, a
crown!) rests on your head. Who do you need to best in this respect? Sate this
desire when you raise or assert your status.

### Entitlement

You are certain that the world owes you something more. The problems of your
position or life circumstance are not your fault, and are mere obstacles on the
way to claiming your true place of importance. Who do you blame for your
current lot? Sate this desire when you obtain something that you envy another
for.

### Decadence

You need something desperately, unreasonably: gambling, sex, drugs, or
something else, as appropriate. What is it? Sate this desire when you get your
fix.

### Playing puppeteer

Like Emma, you see others' lives as toys for your own amusement. You wish to
arrange the lives of those around you just so. Who is the hero(ine) and who is
the villain in your headcanon? Sate this desire when you get someone to do what
you want without asking or telling them.

### Leveling distinctions

You believe in the Natural Rights of Man (and probably Woman). You believe that
all are, at a fundamental level, equal. Who do you believe has put themselves
above others, to the detriment of all? Sate this desire when you pointedly
ignore distinctions of rank and position.

### Gloryhound

You live for the applause, or the bows and curtseys. You want to be recognized
for your skill, bravery, and good looks. Who do you most look up to? Sate this
desire when you get others to applaud you for your good qualities.

### Luxury

The feel of silk, the smell of spices, the pleasure of a wild and picturesque
landscape. You seek sensual and luxurious pleasures. What is your particular
weakness, and who knows it? Sate this desire when you take pleasure in material
goods beyond your means.

## Social Roles

Play one!

### TODO Lady (â™€)

A young lady, from a good family, with some hope of marriage. Your honour is
your family's honour. Your honour is both positive and negative: being
beautiful, charming, witty and accomplished can brighten it; being wanton,
vain, shallow or crude can tarnish it. Be gentle and kind to those beneath you,
and obedient and respectful to those above you.

Draw a card when:

  - you demonstrate your accomplishments,
  - ...
  - or make those around you feel at ease.

Tell us who is:

  - Your father (or other pater familias)
  - Your lady's maid
  - Your best friend

Initial hand: 5

### TODO Governess (â™€)

A young lady of indifferent family, but with enough education to hold a
position with a wealthy family as not-quite-a-servant. Set a good example for
the children. Demonstrate your refinement and accomplishments. Ensure the moral
behavior of your charges.

Draw a card when:

  - ...
  - ...
  - ...

Tell us who is:

  - Your employer?
  - Your charge or charges?
  - Your best friend?

Initial hand: 4

### Ward (â™€)

A young lady who has been sent to live with relatives. Either her parents are
dead, or simply unable to raise her in the proper fashion. She is in the
family, but perhaps not quite _of_ it.

Draw a card when:

  - demonstrate your accomplishments,
  - obey your guardian,
  - or pursue an appropriate courtship.

Tell us who:

  - Is your guardian?
  - You rely on for financial support?
  - Sees you as a threat, obstacle or imposition?

Initial hand: 4

### TODO Spinster (â™€)

You are expected to deviate from (reject? or wish fruitlessly you could conform
to?) your society's feminine ideal, have secret wealth or knowledge, and draw
strength from your relationships with other women.

Draw a card when:

  - ...
  - ...
  - ...

Tell us who is:

  - ...
  - Your dearest sister?
  - The one who got away?

Initial hand: 4

### Gentleman (â™‚)

A single man, in possession of a good fortune. Let a lady decide the degree of
acquaintance. A servant cannot impinge upon your honour, but neither can you
suffer insolence from them. Another gentleman insulting you, your family, or a
lady of your close acquaintance is a stain on your honour.

Draw a card when:

  - you display good judgment,
  - act warm and welcoming,
  - or defend the honour of someone close to you.

Tell us who is:

  - Your cousin
  - The tradesman you owe the most
  - Your boon companion

Initial hand: 5

### TODO Officer (â™‚)

You are expected to be disciplined, honorable and patriotic.

Draw a card when:

  - ...
  - ...
  - ...

Tell us who:

  - Is your commanding officer?
  - Did you leave behind?
  - ...

Initial hand: 4

### TODO Clergyman (â™‚)

...

Draw a card when:

  - ...
  - ...
  - ...

Tell us who is:

  - ...
  - ...
  - ...

Initial hand: 4

### Scholar (â™‚)

You are expected to be erudite, considered, and informed.

Draw a card when:

  - you teach someone a valuable lesson,
  - are the voice of reason,
  - or you gain insight into a quandary.

Tell us who is:

  - Your rival?
  - Your school-chum?
  - Your pupil? (Whether they agree or not?)

Initial hand: 4

### TODO Servant (âš²)

A young man or woman in service to someone of quality. Be neither seen nor
heard, except when needed. Protect the honour of your master's house in the
broader world. Discharge your duty to the family first; there is always more
you can do.

Draw a card when:

  - you keep your master's confidence,
  - act on their needs before they ask you,
  - or when you subordinate your own interests to those of your master.

Tell us who is:

  - Your master
  - The apple of your eye
  - Your confidante

Initial hand: 3

### TODO Invalid (âš²)

You are expected to be home-bound, solicitous of others' health, and ...

Draw a card when:

  - ...
  - ...
  - ...

Tell us who is:

  - Your physician?
  - Your source of comfort?
  - Thinks you're playing it up for sympathy?

Initial hand: 4

### TODO Vagabond (âš²)

You are expected to be needy, itinerant, and thankful.

Draw a card when:

  - ...
  - ...
  - ...

Tell us who:

  - Is after you?
  - Is your drinking companion?
  - Gives you charity?

Initial hand: 3

### TODO Magician (âš²)

You are expected to be mysterious, wise, and unconventional.

Draw a card when:

  - ...
  - ...
  - ...

Tell us who:

  - Is your patron?
  - Wishes to be your student?
  - ...

Initial hand: 4
