Tokens are HP.

When the GM sets up a hard move at you, you can either acquiesce, counter with
a card, or counter with token loss (what's that look like, fictionally?). More
tokens the higher the card the GM played.

When you want to make a thing happen with an NPC, you can play cards, which
they must counter if they want to resist. You can also spend tokens if you have
particular face cards or deals with the Fairy.

Make long-term consequences system (clocks)

Make workshop move spell move.

---

Token debt? From Fairy? Leading to compels?

Possibility of meaningful zero-token actions?

Desert moments in Arcadia: "screw it, dropping all my resources to get what I
want now, at future cost."; "I missed the moment to speak or act."; the moment
that the land rises up to obey Steven Black.

PTA3-style impulses for Dark Desires---use them not as token draws per se but
as consequences and compromises? Hell, as cues for Darkest Self à la
Monsterhearts.

Diceless is usually about opportunity cost, diceful is usually about risk. This
implies that, in Arcadia, how you refresh has to be more bounded than it
currently is, so that the cost is somewhat more calculable. Also, that magic
should be more dice-y. More risk-based.

More intentionally framed scenes? Less flow?

Important things: "That might not be so easy because of feelings, promises,
relationships, social mores"; what states can relationships be in? At some
level, it's like taking PTA and adding emphasis in the spots you want.

There's something to be said for scene framing without stakes per se. Going
around, trying to one-up, defend, pry out truths and understand others. Go in
knowing what you hope to get from it, and whoever takes the trick takes the
scene? Couple that with the Darkest Self kind of Desires, maybe?

OK, so, each upbeat scene, you can buy in by saying what you want and putting
forward the right amount of tokens for it. You can be present, I guess, without
that, but really? What are you even doing. Point is, once you've spent those
tokens, you can be "dealt in"—use your hand to get what you want. You can then
use cards to build towards what you get to say in the final outcome of the
scene (tempted to use blackjack here?)

---

There are a number of highlights in my Kindle on the subject of the flavor of
this game.

One thought in particular is this: when Clarke talks about how she is writing a
story "seen from the wrong side", but that Vinculus and Childermass are more
capable of seeing the extent to which Strange & Norrell are tools of the Raven
King than Strange & Norrell themselves are, I think that this speaks somewhat
to the way that this is a book valorizing the perspectives of the oppressed.
The servants and ladies see and understand much more than the magicians, but
have less power to act on it. Childermass and Vinculus, in particular, are used
to seeing people as agents and tools of other, more powerful, people, while
Strange & Norrell are unaccustomed to think of themselves as anything but
actors, subjects.

---

There has always been another England. It lurks on the edge of perception, it
appears when you don't look right at it. Alfred Watkins sensed something of it
when he wrote The Old Straight Track. William Blake referred to it when he
wrote of "our clouded hills". This is an older, stranger, _other_ England. It
may as well be called Annwn, Avalon, or _orbis alius_.

But as the Enlightenment opens many doors, so too does it close some. No one
has accidentally or purposely walked into that other world for a long time now.
The old fairy roads that led out of England have been long closed. Until---that
is, until now.

Perhaps it is the king's madness that has changed things, or perhaps it is the
renewal of worship of old king Ludd in the North. Perhaps it is simply that the
stars are right. But the Old Roads are opening, mirrors and rivers and clouds
and rain once again bring visitors. Magic is returning to England.

---

"It's advantageous for a servant to know which of his freedoms are his own."
---Allie
