# Arcadia

By way of _vingt-et-un_.

## Characters

Characters have social roles (which give them cards in hand) and desires (which
give them tokens to ante).

Characters have access to special powers on face cards.

Characters have relationships with NPCs and each other.

Characters probably have traits they can use to finesse the numbers.

When you first make characters, there are formal relationships defined by your
social role and emotional relationships defined by your desires. Use these to
mix everyone up into one nice tangled community.

## The GM

The GM controls the NPCs and provides adversity. It's their role to reinforce
the strictures of society, the dangers of magic, and the difficulties of human
relationships.

See [Techniques and Tools](arcadia.md#techniques-and-tools) for some GM
techniques.

The GM should write down what we know about NPCs on their index cards, and
particularly how they feel about the PCs and each other. This will help them
drive the action from the NPCs point of view. Remember to think about and
communicate what will happen if the PCs don't act.

## Scenes

Each scene, the player of any character present may opt to push for stakes.
Otherwise, what the GM says is final, and they can be brutal.

If someone pushes for stakes, everyone else present may opt to take part, too.
If they pass, they may not jump in until a new scene begins. They have missed
their moment.

To push for stakes, name what you want (try not to directly oppose someone
else, more on this later), and push forward enough tokens.

  * If you want an absolute outcome, something absolute and without compromise,
    put forward three tokens.
  * If you want a significant outcome, something clearly in your favour, put
    forward two tokens.
  * If you want a moderate outcome, something with a spin in your favour, put
    forward one token.
  * If you want a minor outcome, doing little more than skirting the worst, you
    do not need to put forward any tokens.

Then, deal cards.

The GM gets two cards, one face down.

Each player who has bought in plays a card from their hand face down in front
of them, and then is dealt another card face up.

Continue to play the scene. Certain actions (escalations, basically) mean that
you will take another face-up card. Everything else is a pass (for now).

The GM must hit whenever a PC does, unless their hand (including the hole card)
totals 17 or more.

When the questions of the stakes must be answered, or everyone has passed,
reveal the hole cards. Anyone with a total greater than the GM's total, but
less than 21, gets their stakes. Anyone with a total less than the GM's (and
less than 21) gets their stakes at cost.

If at any point you go bust, immediately reveal your hole card. You have gone
too far, and do not get your stakes. Narrate how you have overstepped the
bounds of propriety. The scene _may_ continue without you, if appropriate, but
each other player also pull back their tokens, discard all the cards in front
of them, and back down, with no cost, if they wish.

## Face cards

Your character will have a number of particular powers that are tied to face
cards. If at any point that face card is showing, you may use that power. If
that face card is your hole card, you may choose to reveal it to use that
power.

## Magic

Magic is the result of the Otherworld leaking into this one, made possible by
the King's madness. Many face card powers are magical, but also, you may invoke
a bargain with a being from the Otherworld.

This probably uses suits or something? It's not blackjack at any rate. It's
also likely driven more by tokens than cards.

## Seasons, Growth, and Change

At the end of each season (a bunch of sessions with a coherent arc), go through
a questionnaire and ask the table about each character: whether they have done
this, or that, etc. They will gain XP based on that, which they can use to
modify their face card powers and possibly some other things. They may also
change out a desire, and should redefine their relationships with the NPCs.
