.. _this-other-regency:

This Other Regency
==================

The year is 1812. England is at war, with Wellington keeping the French
at bay in the Peninsula. The king, George III, has gone mad, and his
son, Prince George, has been appointed Prince Regent. Jane Austen's
first book, *Sense & Sensibility*, is selling well, and the authoress is
working on her second novel.

The well-to-do members of the *bon ton* spend their summers at their
country houses, and their winters in London, during *the season*. They
take trips to Bath, or to the newly-fashionable seaside resorts such as
Brighton. They attend balls and eat feasts and then the ladies withdraw
to the drawing room while the men smoke and pass the port.

But this is not simply the England of the Regency; it is altogether more
magical.

Geography
---------

.. figure:: /_static/ppengmap.png
   :align: center
   :width: 650px
   :alt: Jane Austen's England
   
   Image courtesy of `The Republic of Pemberley`_.

.. _The Republic of Pemberley: http://pemberley.com/

England at this time is just starting to be made small: transportation
on the stage coach is getting both faster, and more affordable for more
people. But there's still a lot of regional variation.

For our purposes, we'll divide England into a few macro-regions, and
talk about each. Then, there are three cities that deserve special
attention: London, Bath, and Brighton.

.. todo:: Finish regions of England.

.. todo:: Add a magical geography section.

South East
~~~~~~~~~~

Consisting of the counties of Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, Hampshire,
Kent, Oxfordshire, Surrey and Sussex, this is very much what you think
of when you think of Jane Austen's England. Rich farmland supports many
small towns. There's Canterbury, there's Brighton.

South West
~~~~~~~~~~

Consisting of the counties of Gloucestershire, Wiltshire, Somerset,
Dorset, Devon and Cornwall, the cities of Bristol and Bath are here.
Piracy, smuggling, tin, Dartmoor.

East England
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Consisting of the counties of Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire, Essex,
Hertfordshire, Norfolk and Suffolk

West Midlands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

East Midlands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The North
~~~~~~~~~

London
~~~~~~

Famously, the poet Shelley once said "Hell is a city much like London...
small justice shown, and still less pity."

London is the *axis mundi* of encroaching modernity. It is what pulls
the land away from Arcadia, and towards the dark Satanic mills of
Blake's vision.

Religion
--------

Religion in the Regency deserves some particular mention. As many
dissertations can and have been written on this subject, and on each
religion mentioned here, this is necessarily an overview only.

Anglicanism
~~~~~~~~~~~

The state religion of the United Kingdom at the time is Anglicanism.
This is a branch of Christianity usually identified as Protestant,
though some theologians in the period and before have insisted that it
represented a middle way between Protestantism and Catholicism. The head
of the Anglican church is actually the English monarch, but the *de
facto* head and *primus inter pares* is the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Anglican ministers not only can marry, but are expected to do so to set
a good example for their parishioners.

Catholicism
~~~~~~~~~~~

Catholicism is often seen in the period as a religion of the Continent,
but it has, of course, deep roots in the British isles. It is at this
point still the majority religion in Ireland, and widespread in England
despite years of official repression. As of 1791, Catholic worship has
been made legal again, but Catholics are still barred from certain
public positions, such as sitting in parliament. Catholic marriages were
not legally recognized, either.

Presbyterianism
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Scotland.

Methodism and Nonconformism
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Wales.

The Society of Friends (Quakers)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

George Fox, 1650.

Judaism
~~~~~~~

Many from Sephardic families, by way of Spain or the Lowlands. After the
1290 Edict of Expulsion, Cromwell re-admitted Jews in 1657. Things have
been rocky, but getting more stable, since then.

Islam
~~~~~

Mostly Navy men from what is now Bangladesh.

Hinduism
~~~~~~~~

Very rare.

Terms of Address
----------------

Titles

Among equals

Addressing superiors

Addressing inferiors

Intimacy
