=============
What is this?
=============

*Et in Arcadia Ego* is a Regency fantasy game. You play characters in
Regency England (1811-1820 or thereabouts), who have unique qualities
that draw the attention of magical otherworldly beings.

The characters live in a world cut through with sharp divides,
particularly divides of *class* and *sex*. Everyone is defined by their
place in society, and society has expectations and demands of everyone.
These demands are by no means equal, though, and the closer you are to
being a gentleman of means, the more you can do exactly what you want,
and get away with it. The further you are from that, the more society's
demands may chafe.

The otherworldly beings, the fairies, are drawn to those who long for
something more than the life they're allowed. They offer magical help,
but as is always the case, there are strings attached. Are those strings
worth it to you?

The main characters
-------------------

The characters you play are all special in one particular way: they know
how to work magic. Maybe not a lot, maybe not well, but it still puts
them in a position of unique power and peril.

Magic is something both ancient and new to England. It used to permeate
the land, but has long since faded. Now, whether due to the king's
madness or as a last-ditch resistance to the encroachment of modernity
and the enlightenment, it is returning.

It is not a *secret* that there have been magicians in England, but it
is the sort of thing most people today would dismiss. Magic has not been
seen for centuries. Even if you can prove to someone that not only do
you know a spell, but it works, that is most likely to be treated as a
curiosity, like membership in a society like the Freemasons: polite
interest, followed by a change in subject.

.. topic:: Jane Austen and Genre

   As I've told people about this game, I've described it a number of
   different ways: I tell people that it is drawing-room fantasy in
   England during the Napoleonic Wars, that it is Regency fantasy, that
   it is a game about magic in Jane Austen's England. The last one
   usually gets the most recognition: people have seen the screen
   adaptations of Austen's work, and know what to picture.

   But there is one pitfall there: when adapted to the screen, Jane
   Austen's stories often end up becoming *romantic comedies*. This game
   is (and, I would say, Austen's books are) not that. Austen's works
   are concerned with survival in a sexist and classist society, and
   even at times acknowledge the racism of a country that had just
   abolished slavery within her lifetime. Her heroines reject marriages
   of convenience and end up in marriages of love, it is true, but their
   friends and relations take other routes, sometimes pursuing safety to
   the exclusion of happiness, and sometimes pursuing passion to the
   exclusion of safety.

   Put another way: if you manage to play Lizzie Bennet in this game,
   more power to you. You are, however, just as likely to end up as
   Charlotte Lucas or Lydia Bennet.

   Of course, if you should end up playing a character like The
   Gentleman, it is incumbent on you to examine whether you are more
   like Mr. Knightley or Mr. Wickham.

.. todo::

   Can you change the world? (Yes.) How can you change the world? How
   does magic coming into the hands of the least privileged help them do
   so?

   Something that hasn't made it from conversation into text yet is that
   if you use the fairy, or magic, to reinforce your power, or abuse
   power, it turns out bad. If you use it to make a new world, that is
   the only way things can be good.

   Maybe "this world is untenable and I must change it" is a good
   motivation, eh?

How do we play?
---------------

To play, you need three to five people, paper, pencils, a deck of
playing :index:`cards`, some tokens of two different sorts, and an
enthusiasm for Regency fantasy.

One player will take the role of :index:`Host`. It is their duty to play
the world, with all its adversity and support, and most particularly, to
play the fairy.

Everyone else will play the main characters in the story. It is their
duty to play these characters faithfully and honestly, to pursue their
dreams and to face their fears.

A game will consist of a few :index:`sessions`, perhaps three to six,
depending on interest and where the story goes. Each session, everyone
gathers and tells a story together, like a conversation. At certain
points in the conversation, you will trigger particular rules, which
will then shape what sorts of things you are expected and allowed to
say.

Those rules will involve using the cards, the tokens, and things written
on your character sheet. More about the specifics later.

The Host is there to be force of adversity, but not hostility. It is
only through adversity that we come to see someone's true character,
after all, and if we are to tell a story worth the telling, it must have
challenges, temptations, and setbacks. But as the Host has such great
latitude to set the world against the characters, they must also behave
with restraint and according to principles, that they may not be merely
a cruel and capricious demiurge.
