.. _appendix-Fairies and goblins:

=============================
Appendix: Fairies and goblins
=============================

The beings of Arcadia are divided by mortal scholars into two
categories: the powerful, noble, and inscrutable fairies, and the base,
voracious, and all-too-understandable goblins.

These divisions, of course, reflect the mortal scholars' ideas of class,
and ultimately fairies and goblins have more that unite them than divide
them: they are all creatures in whom the principle of magic dominates,
who live and breathe magic.

Bring goblins into the game when someone travels to Arcadia, as the
magicians use obvious magic, or when you need them. Save fairies for
late in the game, or when a magician summons one.

Goblins
=======

When you make a goblin, you must choose its hunger, powers, weaknesses,
and tells.

Choose one or two hungers:

 - Secrets, lies, and sorrows.
 - Chaos, bickering, and hatred.
 - Wealth, jewels, and luxuries.
 - Praise, adoration, and obeisance.
 - Blood, flesh, and bone.
 - ... or something else.

Choose two or three powers:

 - To shrink to the size of a mouse or grow to the size of
   an oak.
 - To fly.
 - To talk with stones, plants, and rivers.
 - To step into one shadow and out of another.
 - To make worthless things look like gold.
 - To lull people to sleep with their song.
 - To shrug off the fiercest blow.
 - To make anyone who looks at them feel love.
 - ... or something else.

Choose at least one weakness:

 - The sound of church bells.
 - The sound of bees.
 - The touch of rowan.
 - Holy words.
 - Iron nails.
 - Spilled milk.
 - Horse shoes.
 - Their true name.
 - Salt.
 - Red ribbon.
 - ... or something else.

Choose at least one tell:

 - Golden eyes and a wicked smile.
 - A cow's tail.
 - A scabrous hide and bulging muscles.
 - Long ears and a long nose.
 - No shadow.
 - The sound of wind in the trees.
 - The smell of rain on tilled earth.
 - A form no more substantial than mist.
 - ... or something else.

Fairies
=======

.. todo:: Edit fairies.

.. todo::

   Detail the magical powers of each fairy. What can they do without
   thinking, what can they do with great effort?


These are the rulers of Arcadia, the nobles and dominions of that other
land.

When you as the Host are playing the fairy, you must resist the
temptation to be coy. Fairies are not ashamed of who they are, nor are
they frightened of a mere mortal magician. In a world bound by social
norms, the fairy is your chance to say what no one else will say, to
take decisive and inhuman action, and to ensure that, despite the best
efforts of these little people living their little lives, change and
chaos will prevail.

The Beast of the Moors
----------------------

The Beast is inhuman. It may take many forms (a hairy and disheveled
wild man, a great brindle hound with red eyes, a silver-and-black fairy
cat the size of a lynx, or more), but no one would mistake it for
something *normal* and *natural*.

And yet, the beast can communicate very clearly. It may not use words,
but there is never any doubt what it asks of you.

It values a kind of *authenticity*, but it sees compassion as inevitably
inauthentic, and a kind of violence and selfishness as the highest goal.
It advocates for taking what you want by force and rewards those who are
willing to become predators.

The Hanged God
--------------

Some would say the Hanged God is an aspect of Woden, as the god of poets
and magicians. If so, he has none of the wise and kindly traveller left
in him. This is an old and wizened man with a rope-scar on his neck, who
looks more like a vagabond than any respectable man. He is a master of
lies, a master of self-abasement for his own gain, and wants nothing
more than to see the entire social order inverted. It may be easy to
sympathize with his goals, while reviling his means. Of course, as he
sees himself as being oppressed and trampled by everyone, a complete
social inversion would put him at the very top, so.

The Horned God
--------------

The Horned God is a hunter, and the hunted, all in one. He may take the
guise of a country squire, a vigorous young officer, a gamekeeper, or
even a poacher, but he is always hale, and male.

While some other fairies have nightly balls to which they steal mortals,
the Horned God holds a hunt, that courses over all of Britain, and
sometimes as far afield as Hell or Europe. A hunt needs many people, of
course, and he is likely to find any number of accomplishments to his
liking. And then, there's always the risk that you will instead catch
his eye as *quarry*.

King Ludd
---------

The Old King of the North, Ludd (or Llud of the Silver Hand) cuts a
regal figure, adorned in robes and brocades all of the finest fabrics
and furs. His right arm or hand is a silver prosthetic, worked with
exquisite filigree, and perfectly functional.

He values nothing so highly as ancient nobility, though he may find it
in surprising places. He sees deeds of arms and valour as the evidence
of this nobility. He desires nothing so much as to destroy the low-born
cullions and varlets who are putting on airs of greatness with their
newfound money. To do this, he is happy to break machinery, but happier
to break men.

Choose among the highest status characters present. One is his nemesis,
in whom he sees nothing but baseness. He will seek that character's
overthrow and destruction, but he cannot do it himself; to do so would
be to rob the truly noble and valiant people he sees in this town of
their rightful chance to elevate themselves through feats of valour and
strength. No, he must help them towards their destiny.

The Lady in the Lake
--------------------

The Lady in the Lake is a figure of surpassing beauty and wisdom. Those
she befriends will prosper, and those she hates will stumble and fall.
While she would never *admit* that she was the same who gave King Arthur
his power, she does not deny it, either.

She is tall and willowy, wearing diaphanous white gowns of the latest
fashion. Her hair falls in golden tresses, like light shining off a
brook. She is exacting in her demands, and never forgives a
transgression. Obedience is the highest virtue in her world, and while
she would never make an *unreasonable* demand, neither must her
requirements be questioned.

Old Iron-boots
--------------

Also called Robin Red-cap, he wears the guise of an old soldier, with
weary eyes and many stories for those that will listen. He leans on a
stick, and walks with a heavy tread.

Don't let that fool you. He is a spirit of death, and wants nothing so
much as to bathe in the blood of the sweet and innocent. He plays by
strange rules, though: he can gain no satisfaction from killing those
who have not first accepted his hospitality.

Choose who has particularly drawn his attention as prey.

The Sable Lady
--------------

A young widow, still (and always) in her mourning blacks. Her face
remains obscured, but no one doubts her beauty. She stands staring
forlornly out windows, walks about the gardens in hopeless circles, and
wishes everyone the greatest happiness in a voice creaking from recent
crying.

Any who promise her respite from her grief may have her friendship,
until they fail, as all before them have, at which point her grief
begets her anger, and she will visit her own sorrows a hundredfold on
her false friends.

The Three Sisters
-----------------

Hecate, the phases of the moon, virgin goddesses, inseparable, wild
mistresses of storms physical and social, demanding *amusement* and
*secrets* before all else.

Fetches and Wraiths
===================

When a magician irreparably damages their soul with magic, they may
become a fetch or a wraith. These things bridge the border between
Arcadians and mortals: they were mortal, but now are creatures of magic,
and so have lost all the moral foundation available to mortals.

A fetch is a mind and a body, but it has lost its soul: this has been
replaced with fairy-fire, which will eventually consume both the mind
and the soul, but until then provides a powerful source of magic.

When you become a fetch, you should consult with the Host about whether
you will continue to play the character. While the fetch has all the
memories of the person it once was, it has none of the moral character,
and this may be a hard switch to make. The Host, who has practice
playing amoral characters, may prefer to take over.

A newly-formed fetch starts with five *fuel*, and consumes one fuel at
the change of each season, or whenever it casts a spell. Any spell it
casts will be perfect, as though it had drawn only face cards, without
having to draw any. If it would consume a fuel and has none to consume,
it destroys itself instead, in a flare of fairy-fire.

A fetch can gain fuel by serving a fairy, which can dole out fuel, or by
consuming another mortal being in fairy-fire.

A wraith, contrariwise, is a soul and a mind, but no body. Its curse is,
in some ways, the opposite of the curse of a fetch: rather than
consuming itself, it will linger, impossibly, and in suffering. A wraith
can only be seen by those who are magically sensitive (magicians, cats,
the very young, the very old, the very ill, and so on), and cannot work
its will on the world except through casting spells it knew in life.
Further, because a wraith is, in many ways, dead, it can only cast
spells if it is given a source of magic: either by serving a fairy, or
by magician knowingly giving their own blood (and taking a wound).
