=============================
Appendix: Geography & Culture
=============================

This England is not, quite, the England you may know.

Geography
---------

.. figure:: /_static/ppengmap.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Jane Austen's England
   
   Image courtesy of `The Republic of Pemberley`_.

.. _The Republic of Pemberley: http://pemberley.com/

England at this time is just starting to be made small: transportation
on the stage coach is getting both faster, and more affordable for more
people. But there's still a lot of regional variation.

For our purposes, we'll divide England into a few macro-regions, and
talk about each. Then, there are three cities that deserve special
attention: London, Bath, and Brighton.

South East
~~~~~~~~~~

Consisting of the counties of Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, Hampshire,
Kent, Oxfordshire, Surrey, and Sussex, this is very much what you think
of when you think of Jane Austen's England. Rich farmland supports many
small towns. There's Canterbury, there's Brighton.

.. todo:: Expand South East.

South West
~~~~~~~~~~

Consisting of the counties of Gloucestershire, Wiltshire, Somerset,
Dorset, Devon, and Cornwall, the cities of Bristol and Bath are here.
Piracy, smuggling, tin, Dartmoor.

.. todo:: Expand South West.

East England
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Consisting of the counties of Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire, Essex,
Hertfordshire, Huntingdonshire, Norfolk, and Suffolk.

.. todo:: Expand East England.

Midlands
~~~~~~~~

Consisting of the counties of Derbyshire, Herefordshire, Leicestershire,
Lincolnshire, Northamptonshire, Nottinghamshire, Rutland, Shropshire,
Staffordshire, Warwickshire, and Worcestershire.

.. todo:: Expand Midlands.

The North
~~~~~~~~~

Consisting of the counties of Cheshire, Cumberland, Durham, Lancashire,
Northumberland, Westmorland, and York.

.. todo:: Expand the North.

London
~~~~~~

Famously, the poet Shelley once said "Hell is a city much like London...
small justice shown, and still less pity."

London is the *axis mundi* of encroaching modernity. It is what pulls
the land away from Arcadia, and towards the dark Satanic mills of
Blake's vision.

.. todo:: Expand London.

While the action of a game may *move* to London, I strongly encourage
you to not set a game here.

Religion
--------

Religion in the Regency deserves some particular mention. As many
dissertations can and have been written on this subject, and on each
religion mentioned here, this is necessarily an overview only.

Anglicanism
~~~~~~~~~~~

The state religion of the United Kingdom at the time is Anglicanism.
This is a branch of Christianity usually identified as Protestant,
though some theologians in the period and before have insisted that it
represented a middle way between Protestantism and Catholicism. The head
of the Anglican church is actually the English monarch, but the *de
facto* head and *primus inter pares* is the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Anglican ministers not only can marry, but are expected to do so to set
a good example for their parishioners.

Catholicism
~~~~~~~~~~~

Catholicism is often seen in the period as a religion of the Continent,
but it has, of course, deep roots in the British isles. It is at this
point still the majority religion in Ireland, and widespread in England
despite years of official repression. As of 1791, Catholic worship has
been made legal again, but Catholics are still barred from certain
public positions, such as sitting in parliament. Catholic marriages were
not legally recognized, either.

Methodism and its cousins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the early 18th century, Anglican priests John Wesley and his brother
Charles developed a theology and practice of Christianity that they
insisted was entirely in line with the Church of England, but which the
Church saw as a threat to its power structure. Because of their
reputation at school for following a strict code of holy behavior, they,
and eventually their followers, were labeled "methodists".

While superficially similar to Calvinism, in that they preached
salvation through faith alone, they believed in free will and the
ability to choose faith. They were known for preaching in the open air
and to the poor and those that the Church of England neglected, and
without regard to parish boundaries. This last point, and their
encouragement of lay preachers, made the official power structure of the
Church resent and suspect them.

At this point, Methodism is present all over the country, but has begun
to really take off in Wales.

The Society of Friends (Quakers)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the middle of the 17th century, a man from Leicestershire named
George Fox came to understand that it was possible for anyone to have a
direct experience of Christ, without the intercession of clergy. He
started a movement, and his followers formed a small but weighty set of
people throughout England. While they had especial success in the
now-independent American colonies, a surprising number of notable
merchants and craftspeople in England counted themselves as members of
the Religious Society of Friends, or Quakers as others called them.

The Quakers rejected the hierarchy and structure of the Church of
England, and preached and practiced a life of material simplicity,
honesty, and peace. Many of them rejected slave-produced goods, like
cotton and sugar, and many of them advocated for abolition of the
practice of slavery in England's colonies, such as the West Indies.

While they were never very many in number, their impact on England of
this time was outsized.

Others
~~~~~~

There are many other religions and denominations to be found in England
at this time: Presbyterians (mostly from Scotland), a decent Jewish
population (mostly of Sephardic descent, from Spain and the Lowlands,
and mostly living in or near London), and some Muslims (mostly lascars
originally from Bengal and Gujarat, now living in port towns). Look up
Daniel Mendoza, the inventor of Scientific Boxing, or Sake Dean Mahomed,
who introduced shampoo to England.

Terms of Address
----------------

A major point of etiquette in this time and place concerns how two
people might address each other. Titles, family names, and personal
names all play a part, as do relative social standing and intimacy.

First, if you are addressing someone with an actual title (such as the
duke, marquess, earl, viscount, or baron of, say, *Newland*), "my lady"
or "my lord", or "Lady *Newland*" or "Lord *Newland*" will suffice. A
baronet or knight may be "Sir *John*", and a baronetess or dame would be
"Dame *Mary*".

Most people, however, neither have titles themselves, nor regularly
interact with those who do. For addressing a superior, or an equal with
whom you are not especially intimate, "Mr." or "Miss" or "Mrs", and then
their surname, would be appropriate. This includes clergy; while you
might address a letter to "the Reverend Smith", you would address him in
conversation as "Mr. Smith".

When talking about siblings, it is normal to use the first name to make
clear who you mean, such as "Miss Elizabeth Smith", or perhaps even just
"Miss Elizabeth" if you are intimate and the context is casual, but the
eldest daughter would usually simply be "Miss Smith".

When you are close with a man, and the context is intimate, it is normal
to use simply his surname: "Smith". For a woman, one might use simply
her personal name, "Mary", but this demands a much greater degree of
intimacy, especially if used by a man.

Social inferiors may be referred to simply by their personal name, and
if they are a servant with an unusual or noteworthy personal name, it is
not unusual to instead call them by one more mundane, so an "Ichabod"
may end up being called "Jacob", or similar.

Currency
--------

The currency of England at this time can be notoriously confusing, but a
little guide should help. What's crucial is to remember that this is a
pre-decimalized currency, but that there is an essential unit and
subdivisions, just like you're used to.

The basic unit is the pound, which is divided into twenty shillings,
each of which are in turn divided into twelve pence. An amount of two
pounds, four shillings, and sixpence might be written £2 4s 6d, or £2/
4/6, and said as "two pounds, four shillings and sixpence", or "two
pounds, four and six".

The penny, the smallest unit, was sometimes further divided into halves
and quarters, the ha'penny or the farthing. That even a quarter of a
penny had some purchasing power should indicate first the inflation that
has happened since (one pound in the period is roughly the equivalent of
fifty pounds today) and the extreme wealth disparity present in England
at the time. The working poor would expect never to handle a bank note,
as seeing that much money together at one time would be rare, while the
wealthiest landlords would expect tens of thousands of pounds a year
simply from rents and investments. This situation was exacerbated by
landholders engaging in the practice of enclosure, that is, removing
access to what was formerly common land, and reserving it for their own
private use.

Where many stumble with English currency is that many peculiar coins had
nicknames, from the groat (a four-pence coin), to the crown (five
shillings), to the guinea (a pound and a shilling, traditionally used to
include a tip for any artisan whose services were expensive enough to
merit a price in pounds).

The Magic of England
--------------------

There has always been another England. It lurks on the edge of
perception, it appears when you don't look right at it. Alfred Watkins
sensed something of it when he wrote *The Old Straight Track*. William
Blake referred to it when he wrote of "our clouded hills". This is an
older, stranger, *other* England. It may as well be called Annwn,
Avalon, or *orbis alius*.

But as the Enlightenment opens many doors, so too does it close some. No
one has accidentally or purposely walked into that other world for a
long time now. The old fairy roads that led out of England have been
long closed. Until---that is, until now.

Perhaps it is the king's madness that has changed things, or perhaps it
is the renewal of worship of old king Ludd in the North. Perhaps it is
simply that the stars are right. But the Old Roads are opening, mirrors
and rivers and clouds and rain once again bring visitors. Magic is
returning to England.

The Realms of Fairy
-------------------

There are a number of fairy realms that the magicians of old wrote
about, some of which are still remembered, and some of which may be
accessible to the new magicians of the age. As no mortal has been to
Fairy in three hundred years, and time moves very differently in Fairy,
these places may be very different by now.

The Iron Coast
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The skeletons of ships broken along the hidden shoals, endless mists and
howling winds, riches untold hoarded by the merfolk below the surface,
with beautiful features and the teeth of eels. Most non-aquatic people
here travel by rowboat, as it is safer than being at the mercy of the
winds, and safer than traveling the narrow winding track along the
clifftops.

Naddercott, the serpents' wood
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

What is tree and what is snake is hard to tell, and round the roots the
adders dwell. Light and shadow play around, as serpents slither o'er the
ground. But Adder's wise, as well as fell, and if you pay, he'll secrets
tell.

The Manor
~~~~~~~~~

Each room opens up on to the next, an endless series of chambers and
galleries in enfilade. The windows look out onto enclosed courtyards,
offering no escape from this endless architecture. The courtyards
contain sculpted topiaries, in the French style, and fountains, and
statues that look just a little too lifelike for a magician to be
certain that they weren't once living people.

The Greenspace
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Somewhere in Fairy, if you stray and don't think about where you're
going, you may find a glade in the forest. It's always summer, and the
weather is always perfect. There's a white stag you can see if you're
lucky, just flitting off into the trees. This is where fairies sign
their treaties and meet with no weapons in their hands. This place is
sacred, and a mortal trespassing in it will earn a death sentence. But
as long as they remain in the Greenspace, no fairy may lift a finger
against them.
