.. _appendix-Towns:

===============
Appendix: Towns
===============

When you start a game of *Arcadia*, you will need to select or create a
town. If it is your first time playing, I strongly encourage you to
choose a town. Once you are familiar with the towns here and wish to try
something new, or if you have a very particular place in mind for your
game, perhaps you will wish to create your own town.

Making towns
============

To make an English town for this game, you must first understand that
you are setting the stage for your game both geographically and
socially. So between these two factors, you are really describing the
themes of the game you will play.

A town requires a region (is it in the South East, the West Midlands,
the North, somewhere else?), near any of the notable cities (London,
Bath, Brighton especially), and a name. The question of English toponymy
is much larger than this text can contain, so if you are interested in
naming your town something apt, I would suggest *A Dictionary of British
Place-Names* by A.D. Mills.

Making families
---------------

.. epigraph::

   You are now collecting your people delightfully, getting them exactly
   into such a spot as is the delight of my life. Three or four families
   in a country village is the very thing to work on.

   -- Jane Austen, in a letter to Anna Austen Lefroy

Everyone is part of, or attached to, a family. So the families of the
town are a vital starting place. Two at a bare minimum, five at a
maximum, but usually three or four families, with a family name, a few
noteworthy members, some names for other possible members, and a
standing in terms of wealth and status. Finally, decide which root each
family possesses.

Making locations
----------------

Imagine walking through the town, and the surrounding countryside. What
places stand out? What places might a local visit regularly, and which
places might they studiously avoid? Include a mixture of socially
important places (marketplaces, churches, pubs, others), family seats
(from old tumbledown houses to new fashionable ones), and natural sites
(glades, grottoes, ruined abbeys, others).

Short descriptions of about six notable locations should be enough to
get you started.

Making connections
------------------

Finally, make four possible connections for each social role.
Connections should leave people in unresolved or untenable situations.
This requires a mixture of connections that establish power
relationships and obligations, and that establish wants and needs.

This is in some ways the most demanding part of making a town. You must
make 48 short, punchy, and distinct possible relationships. By all means
start with putting down the obvious ones, then bring in friends to
brainstorm, circle back around to it, write more than you need when you
are struck by inspiration, then edit, change, reassign.

Premade towns
=============

.. todo:: Include premade towns.

Little Norlea (Surrey)
----------------------

Little Norlea is a small village somewhere in Surrey. It is surrounded
by rolling fields, woodlots, and gentle hills. There is a small river
through town, and one bridge. The manor house is not grand, but it is
old, and derives at least some degree of authority from that fact.

People
~~~~~~

The Bellamys of Longford (Holly)

 - Squire Jonas Bellamy (m)
 - Mrs. Lavinia Bellamy (f)
 - Cordelia (f)
 - Gregory (m)
 - Lucy (f)
 - Ellis (m)
 - Sophia (f)
 - David (m)

The Ellicotts of Perish-Not (Willow)

 - Mr. Simon Ellicott (m)
 - Mrs. Helena Ellicott (f)
 - Rebecca (f)
 - Edmund (m)
 - Catherine (Kitty) (f)
 - Matthew (m)
 - Dorothea (f)
 - Stephen (m)

The Hawkeses (Hazel)

 - Sarah (f)
 - Michael (m)
 - Diana (f)
 - Thomas (m)
 - Elizabeth (f)
 - William (m)

The Town
~~~~~~~~

People in the town might be:

 - A farmer
 - A publican
 - A miller
 - A smith
 - A poacher
 - An Anglican vicar
 - A Methodist preacher

People in the town might be named:

 - Mary (f)
 - James (m)
 - Margaret (Peggy) (f)
 - George (m)
 - Ann (f)
 - Joseph (m)
 - Jane (f)
 - Henry (m)
 - Susan (f)
 - Edward (m)
 - Martha (f)
 - Daniel (m)
 - Charlotte (f)
 - Francis (Frank) (m)

Locations
~~~~~~~~~

Longford
""""""""

The manor house. Seat of the Bellamy family.

Perish-Not
""""""""""

An old picturesque house, once seat of the Ellicott family, now rented
out.

St. Alban's
"""""""""""

The parish church. Small, dilapidated.

The chalk horse
"""""""""""""""

There is an ancient horse carved into a hill- side, overlooking Little
Norlea.

The glade
"""""""""

A clearing on the banks of the river favored by lovers, or other who
meeting in secret.

The old priory
""""""""""""""

The picturesque ruin of a monastic building, destroyed in the reign of
Henry VIII.

Connections
~~~~~~~~~~~

For 2 players, pick all four. For 3 or 4 players, pick three. For 5
players, pick two. Make one of them magical in some way: a ghost, a
fairy, or someone touched by one of those.

Gentleman
"""""""""

 - Who is your sister?
 - Who is your best friend?
 - Who is your servant?
 - Who is your elderly relative?

Officer
"""""""

 - Who has caught your eye?
 - Who have you had a bad run-in with before?
 - Who saved your life once?
 - Who never tires of your war stories?

Clergyman
"""""""""

 - Who comes to you seeking religious guidance?
 - Who are you set to inherit from?
 - Who thinks you'd make them a good match?
 - Who gives you respite from your duties?

Dandy
"""""

 - Who defines fashion here?
 - Who is eligible here?
 - Who gives you the best gossip?
 - Who is your valet?

Lady
""""

 - Who is your father?
 - Who is your sister?
 - Who is your lady's maid?
 - Who are you expected to marry?

Companion
"""""""""

 - Who is your employer?
 - Who is your brother?
 - Who is your mother?
 - Who is courting you?

Ward
""""

 - Who is your guardian?
 - Who is out to get you?
 - Who is courting you?
 - Who do you trust?

Spinster
""""""""

 - Who is your sister?
 - Who do you wish could propose?
 - Who still invites you to balls?
 - Whose secrets have you learned?

Invalid
"""""""

 - Who is your doctor?
 - Who is your servant?
 - Who visits you?
 - Who is your cousin?

Upper Servant
"""""""""""""

 - Who is your master?
 - Who have you had dark dreams about?
 - Who always criticizes your work?
 - Who values your advice?

Lower Servant
"""""""""""""

 - Who is your master?
 - Who is your sibling?
 - Who is your confidant?
 - Who have you overheard revealing a secret?

Vagabond
""""""""

 - Who is out to get you?
 - Who is your drinking companion?
 - Who gives you a roof to sleep under?
 - Who is your cousin?

Porthwas (Cornwall)
-------------------

Porthwas is a small town clinging to the rugged cliffs of the Cornish
coast. It gets by on fishing, tin mining, and smuggling. Sometimes ships
wreck on the coast. Sometimes this is by design.

People
~~~~~~

The Blighs of Rosvelen (Rowan)

 - Great aunt Meraud Bligh (f)
 - Admiral David Bligh (m)
 - Sophy (f)
 - George (m)
 - Katherine (Kitty) (f)
 - William (m)
 - Annabel (f)
 - Peter (m)

The Pendars of Tregallas (Oak)

 - Squire Arthur Pendar (m)
 - Mrs. Senara Pendar (f)
 - Morwenna (f)
 - Piran (m)
 - Eseld (f)
 - Jory (m)
 - Tamsin (f)
 - Ross (m)

The Chynoweths (Hawthorn)

 - Grace (f)
 - Hugh (m)
 - Demelza (f)
 - Noah (m)
 - Margaret (Peggy) (f)
 - Robert (m)

The Town
~~~~~~~~

People in the town might be:

 - A farmer
 - A publican
 - A fisher
 - A free-trader (smuggler)
 - A wrecker
 - A miner
 - A midwife

People in the town might be named:

 - Ruth (f)
 - Jacob (m)
 - Laura (f)
 - Luke (m)
 - Prudence (f)
 - Evan (m)
 - Marianne (f)
 - James (m)
 - Frances (Fanny) (f)
 - Andrew (m)
 - Abigail (f)
 - Simon (m)
 - Tegen (f)
 - Breok (m)

Locations
~~~~~~~~~

Rosvelen
""""""""

Seat of the Bligh family. A great house with surrounding rolling hills.

Tregellas
"""""""""

Home of the Pendar family. Almost falling to ruin, with an old overgrown
walled garden.

Wheal Crose
"""""""""""

The Pendars' mine, still turning out tin and killing miners.

The Drowning Man
""""""""""""""""

The pub. A meeting place for smugglers.

The Cove
""""""""

A hidden place with a good beach and caves.

Halangear
"""""""""

A large moor surrounding the town. Beset with bandits, haunted, or both.

Connections
~~~~~~~~~~~

For 2 players, pick all four. For 3 or 4 players, pick three. For 5
players, pick two. Make one of them magical in some way: a ghost, a
fairy, or someone touched by one of those.

Gentleman
"""""""""

 - Who is your muse?
 - Who is your cousin?
 - Who is your creditor?
 - Who will you inherit from?

Officer
"""""""

 - Who is your old flame?
 - Who is your companion-in-arms?
 - Who could make or ruin your career?
 - Who saved your life?

Clergyman
"""""""""

 - Who threatens your moral authority?
 - Who takes any excuse to see you?
 - Who is your closest local relation?
 - Who has told you their secrets?

Dandy
"""""

 - Who throws the best parties?
 - Who could bring you fortune?
 - Who always tries to show you up?
 - Who keeps you in this backwater?

Lady
""""

 - Who are you expected to marry?
 - Who can you trust?
 - Who entrusts you with their secrets?
 - Who makes your heart flutter?

Companion
"""""""""

 - Who treats you like a servant?
 - Who flirts with you?
 - Who can you open up to?
 - With whom do you have real fun?

Ward
""""

 - Who do you sneak out with?
 - Who acts like they're your guardian?
 - Who gives you gifts when they can?
 - Who has set their sights on you?

Spinster
""""""""

 - Who is your elderly dependent?
 - Who values your advice?
 - Who uses you as a social buffer?
 - Who did you reject?

Invalid
"""""""

 - Who once loved you, and may still?
 - Who comes to visit you?
 - Who sees to your needs?
 - Who do you miss?

Upper Servant
"""""""""""""

 - Who do you rely on?
 - Who are you training?
 - Who demands too much from you?
 - Who flaunts their authority over you?

Lower Servant
"""""""""""""

 - Who thinks their thick as thieves with you?
 - Who asks endless favors of you?
 - Who inspires you? How?
 - Who gives you a helping hand?

Vagabond
""""""""

 - Who pretends they don't know you?
 - Who thinks you serve them?
 - Who thinks they can save you?
 - Who gives you companionship?

Mistlethwaite (Yorkshire)
-------------------------

Mistlethwaite is a village on the edge of the vast Yorkshire Dales. The
village is along a rill in a rich valley, and has long been a green and
pleasant place to live. Now, though, a coal pit has opened on the edge
of town, and some of those who once lived by the land are now digging
the coal. The two major families of the town, the Earnshaws and
Raines, are split on the matter of which way the town's future lies, in
the mines or in the fields.

People
~~~~~~

The Earnshaws of Stardon Hall (ZZZ)

 - Mrs. Augusta Earnshaw (f)
 - Mr. Robert Earnshaw (m)
 - Hester (f)
 - William (m)
 - Caroline (f)
 - John (m)
 - Grace (f)
 - George (m)

The Raines of Wakecross (CCC)

 - Mr. Montagu Raines (m)
 - Mrs. Martha Raines (f)
 - Susan (f)
 - Henry (m)
 - Emma (f)
 - Miles (m)
 - Louisa (f)
 - John Michael (m)

The Wades (MMM)

 - Ellen (f)
 - Martin (m)
 - Beatrice (f)
 - Lawrence (m)
 - Rebecca (f)
 - Edmund (m)

The Town
~~~~~~~~

People in the town might be:

 - A collier
 - A farmer
 - A publican
 - A curate
 - A working widow
 - A peddler
 - A musician

People in the town might be named:

 - Sally (f)
 - Stephen (m)
 - Penelope (Penny) (f)
 - Mark (m)
 - Althea (f)
 - Guy (m)
 - Julia (f)
 - Simon (m)
 - Peg (f)
 - Septimus (m)
 - Nancy (f)
 - Percy (m)
 - Moll (f)
 - Adam (m)

Locations
~~~~~~~~~

Stardon Hall
""""""""""""

.. todo:: Description.

The old house of the Earnshaw family retains its Tudor design, with
half-timbering and high-ceilinged halls. It is far from the height of
fashion, but its palpable age does lend a certain gravitas.

Wakecross
"""""""""

The seat of the Raine family, Wakecross is a modest but fashionable new
house, with a stream running near it through the carefully "wild" and
"natural" grounds.

St. Mary's
""""""""""

Legends say the old parish church was built on the site of an ancient
pagan temple, from before the arrival of Christianity.

The Falls
"""""""""

One of the reasons the new "tourists" might venture to Mistlethwaite,
which is otherwise quite off the beaten path, is the spectacular
waterfall just upriver from the town, said to have once been the home of
a fairy queen.

The Pit
"""""""

Dug into the hills near town is the new coal mine, going hundreds of
feet deep into the seam, and belching smoke from the steam engines that
drive breathable air down and pull noxious gases out. Coal is carted out
by the wagonload.

The Cross Scythes
"""""""""""""""""

The center of working-class social life in Mistlethwaite is the old pub,
where music can be found most evenings and the men of the town discuss
how they feel about the changes happening to their town.

Connections
~~~~~~~~~~~

For 2 players, pick all four. For 3 or 4 players, pick three. For 5
players, pick two. Make one of them magical in some way: a ghost, a
fairy, or someone touched by one of those.

Gentleman
"""""""""

 - Who is your creditor
 - Who is your advisor
 - Who is your rival
 - Who you go to for fun

Officer
"""""""

 - Who has your eye
 - Who hangs on your words
 - Who you must show deference to
 - Who you thinks they're better than you

Clergyman
"""""""""

 - Who thinks you are at their command
 - Who loves you but shouldn't
 - Who are you teaching
 - Who thinks you don't deserve the parish

Dandy
"""""

 - Who keeps you here
 - Who thinks they look better with you there
 - Who won't keep out of your business
 - Who imitates you

Lady
""""

 - Who do you trust
 - Who do you enjoy
 - Who makes you laugh, despite yourself
 - Who fascinates you

Companion
"""""""""

 - Who snubs you
 - Who keeps asking you for financial assistance
 - Who courts you
 - Who confides in you

Ward
""""

 - Who refuses to believe you're not a child anymore
 - Who treats you like furniture
 - Who is your co-conspirator
 - Who have you not seen since you were both much younger

Spinster
""""""""

 - Who thinks they know best for you
 - Who thinks you owe them for the care they show you
 - Who can you be honest with
 - Who thinks you're still a prospect for them

Invalid
"""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Upper Servant
"""""""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Lower Servant
"""""""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Vagabond
""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Egdon Heath (Dorset)
--------------------

.. todo:: Description

People
~~~~~~

The XXX of YYY (ZZZ)

 - ... XXX (f)
 - ... XXX (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

The AAA of BBB (CCC)

 - ... AAA (m)
 - ... AAA (f)
 - ...(f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

The NNN (MMM)

 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

The Town
~~~~~~~~

People in the town might be:

 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...

People in the town might be named:

 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

Locations
~~~~~~~~~

YYY
"""

.. todo:: Description.

BBB
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

Connections
~~~~~~~~~~~

For 2 players, pick all four. For 3 or 4 players, pick three. For 5
players, pick two. Make one of them magical in some way: a ghost, a
fairy, or someone touched by one of those.

Gentleman
"""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Officer
"""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Clergyman
"""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Dandy
"""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Lady
""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Companion
"""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Ward
""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Spinster
""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Invalid
"""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Upper Servant
"""""""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Lower Servant
"""""""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Vagabond
""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Thorpe Michael (Norfolk)
------------------------

.. todo:: Description

People
~~~~~~

The XXX of YYY (ZZZ)

 - ... XXX (f)
 - ... XXX (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

The AAA of BBB (CCC)

 - ... AAA (m)
 - ... AAA (f)
 - ...(f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

The NNN (MMM)

 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

The Town
~~~~~~~~

People in the town might be:

 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...

People in the town might be named:

 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

Locations
~~~~~~~~~

YYY
"""

.. todo:: Description.

BBB
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

Connections
~~~~~~~~~~~

For 2 players, pick all four. For 3 or 4 players, pick three. For 5
players, pick two. Make one of them magical in some way: a ghost, a
fairy, or someone touched by one of those.

Gentleman
"""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Officer
"""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Clergyman
"""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Dandy
"""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Lady
""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Companion
"""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Ward
""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Spinster
""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Invalid
"""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Upper Servant
"""""""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Lower Servant
"""""""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Vagabond
""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Hexwick (Northumberland)
------------------------

.. todo:: Description

People
~~~~~~

The XXX of YYY (ZZZ)

 - ... XXX (f)
 - ... XXX (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

The AAA of BBB (CCC)

 - ... AAA (m)
 - ... AAA (f)
 - ...(f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

The NNN (MMM)

 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

The Town
~~~~~~~~

People in the town might be:

 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...

People in the town might be named:

 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

Locations
~~~~~~~~~

YYY
"""

.. todo:: Description.

BBB
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

Connections
~~~~~~~~~~~

For 2 players, pick all four. For 3 or 4 players, pick three. For 5
players, pick two. Make one of them magical in some way: a ghost, a
fairy, or someone touched by one of those.

Gentleman
"""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Officer
"""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Clergyman
"""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Dandy
"""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Lady
""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Companion
"""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Ward
""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Spinster
""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Invalid
"""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Upper Servant
"""""""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Lower Servant
"""""""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Vagabond
""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Crickworth (Wiltshire)
----------------------

.. todo:: Description

People
~~~~~~

The XXX of YYY (ZZZ)

 - ... XXX (f)
 - ... XXX (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

The AAA of BBB (CCC)

 - ... AAA (m)
 - ... AAA (f)
 - ...(f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

The NNN (MMM)

 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

The Town
~~~~~~~~

People in the town might be:

 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...
 - A ...

People in the town might be named:

 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)
 - ... (f)
 - ... (m)

Locations
~~~~~~~~~

YYY
"""

.. todo:: Description.

BBB
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

OOO
"""

.. todo:: Description

Connections
~~~~~~~~~~~

For 2 players, pick all four. For 3 or 4 players, pick three. For 5
players, pick two. Make one of them magical in some way: a ghost, a
fairy, or someone touched by one of those.

Gentleman
"""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Officer
"""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Clergyman
"""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Dandy
"""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Lady
""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Companion
"""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Ward
""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Spinster
""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Invalid
"""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Upper Servant
"""""""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Lower Servant
"""""""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...

Vagabond
""""""""

 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
 - ...
