Appendix: Fairies
=================

The Beast of the Moors
----------------------

The Beast is inhuman. It may take many forms (a hairy and disheveled wild man,
a great brindle hound with red eyes, a silver-and-black fairy cat the size of a
lynx, or more), but no one would mistake it for something *normal* and
*natural*.

And yet, the beast can communicate very clearly. It may not use words, but
there is never any doubt what it asks of you.

It values a kind of *authenticity*, but it sees compassion as inevitably
inauthentic, and a kind of violence and selfishness as the highest goal. It
advocates for taking what you want by force and rewards those who are willing
to become predators.

The Hanged God
--------------

Some would say the Hanged God is an aspect of Woden, as the god of poets and
magicians. If so, he has none of the wise and kindly traveller left in him.
This is an old and wizened man with a rope-scar on his neck, who looks more
like a vagabond than any respectable man. He is a master of lies, a master of
self-abasement for his own gain, and wants nothing more than to see the entire
social order inverted. It may be easy to sympathize with his goals, while
reviling his means. Of course, as he sees himself as being oppressed and
trampled by everyone, a complete social inversion would put him at the very
top, so.

The Horned God
--------------

The Horned God is a hunter, and the hunted, all in one. He may take the guise
of a country squire, a vigorous young officer, a gamekeeper, or even a poacher,
but he is always hale, and male.

While some other fairies have nightly balls to which they steal mortals, the
Horned God holds a hunt, that courses over all of Britain, and sometimes as far
afield as Hell or Europe. A hunt needs many people, of course, and he is likely
to find any number of accomplishments to his liking. And then, there's always
the risk that you will instead catch his eye as *quarry*.

King Ludd
---------

The Old King of the North, Ludd (or Llud of the Silver Hand) cuts a regal
figure, adorned in robes and brocades all of the finest fabrics and furs. His
right arm or hand is a silver prosthetic, worked with exquisite filigree, and
perfectly functional.

He values nothing so highly as ancient nobility, though he may find it in
surprising places. He sees deeds of arms and valour as the evidence of this
nobility. He desires nothing so much as to destroy the low-born cullions and
varlets who are putting on airs of greatness with their newfound money. To do
this, he is happy to break machinery, but happier to break men.

Choose among the highest status characters present. One is his nemesis, in whom
he sees nothing but baseness. He will seek that character's overthrow and
destruction, but he cannot do it himself; to do so would be to rob the truly
noble and valiant people he sees in this town of their rightful chance to
elevate themselves through feats of valour and strength. No, he must help them
towards their destiny.

The Lady in the Lake
--------------------

The Lady in the Lake is a figure of surpassing beauty and wisdom. Those she
befriends will prosper, and those she hates will stumble and fall. While she
would never *admit* that she was the same who gave King Arthur his power, she
does not deny it, either.

She is tall and willowy, wearing diaphanous white gowns of the latest fashion.
Her hair falls in golden tresses, like light shining off a brook. She is
exacting in her demands, and never forgives a transgression. Obedience is the
highest virtue in her world, and while she would never make an *unreasonable*
demand, neither must her requirements be questioned.

Old Iron-boots
--------------

Also called Robin Red-cap, he wears the guise of an old soldier, with weary
eyes and many stories for those that will listen. He leans on a stick, and
walks with a heavy tread.

Don't let that fool you. He is a spirit of death, and wants nothing so much as
to bathe in the blood of the sweet and innocent. He plays by strange rules,
though: he can gain no satisfaction from killing those who have not first
accepted his hospitality.

Choose who has particularly drawn his attention as prey.

The Sable Lady
--------------

A young widow, still (and always) in her mourning blacks. Her face remains
obscured, but no one doubts her beauty. She stands staring forlornly out
windows, walks about the gardens in hopeless circles, and wishes everyone the
greatest happiness in a voice creaking from recent crying.

Any who promise her respite from her grief may have her friendship, until they
fail, as all before them have, at which point her grief begets her anger, and
she will visit her own sorrows a hundredfold on her false friends.

The Three Sisters
-----------------

Hecate, the phases of the moon, virgin goddesses, inseparable, wild mistresses
of storms physical and social, demanding *amusement* and *secrets* before all
else.

The Winter Maiden
-----------------

A young lady, alone and cold out in the snow. Think Christmas ghost story.
