==============
Appendix: Keys
==============

.. todo:: Edit keys.

   They're lifted right from the Lady Blackbird companion. These aren't
   the ones I'll use, ultimately, but they're a good model.

.. todo:: See about including these as keys:

   1.  **Rowan blood:** you may draw an extra card when you are resisting
       the effects of magic worked against you.
   2.  **Ash blood:** you may draw an extra card any time your creativity
       and inspiration is an asset.
   3.  **Willow blood:** you may draw an extra card when your observational
       skill is an asset.
   4.  **Hawthorn blood:** you may draw an extra card when you cast a spell.
   5.  **Oaken blood:** you may draw an extra card when your stamina,
       heartiness, or durability is an asset.
   6.  **Holly blood:** if someone would have leverage over because of their
       superior rank, instead, they don't.
   7.  **Hazel blood:** you may draw an extra card when your knowledge,
       intelligence, or reason is an asset.
   8.  **Yew blood:** you may draw an extra card when you face death as a
       risk.
   9.  **Sol:** You are dazzling. You may draw an extra card when you are
       the center of attention.
   10.  **Luna:** You mirror the moods of those around you. You may draw an
        extra card when it is helpful that you agree with, mirror, and
        support what the other person says.
   11.  **Mercury:** You have a broad education, through formal or informal
        channels. You may draw an extra card when knowing just that one weird
        thing would help.
   12.  **Venus:** You are incredibly beautiful. You may drawn an extra card
        when your beauty helps.
   13.  **Mars:** You are strong. You may draw an extra card in when raw
        physical force helps.
   14.  **Jupiter:** Wealth is easy for you. You may draw an extra card when
        expenditure of money would facilitate matters.
   15.  **Saturn:** Your focus is unshakable. You may draw an extra card
        whenever you must overcome distractions.
   16.  **Uranus:** You have a spark of genius. You may draw an extra card
        whenever you seek to create or discover something new, unknown to the
        world at this point.

Addiction
---------

You like to go out on the town; having a drink or two helps you relax.
Hit your key when your character gets another character to go out on the
town with them.

*Buyoff:* Go sober and quit the drink.

Bastard
-------

You never knew your father. On her deathbed your mother revealed his
identity and you've been pursuing him ever since. Hit your key when you
pursue meeting him.

*Buyoff:* Give up on ever knowing your father.

Best Friend
-----------

You have a best friend from when you were still in leading strings.
You'd help them hide bodies. Hit your key whenever you put your
friendship first.

*Buyoff:* Put someone or something else first.

Brokenhearted
-------------

You no longer form bonds of love or friendship. Hit your key when you
succumb to nostalgia or rebuff the affection of others.

*Buyoff:* Fall in love.

Commander
---------

You are accustomed to giving orders and having them obeyed. Hit your
trait when you come up with a plan and give orders to make it happen.

*Buyoff:* Acknowledge someone else as the leader.

Conscience
----------

You don't like to see anyone suffer, even enemies. Hit your key when you
help someone who is in trouble or when you change someone's life for the
better.

*Buyoff:* Ignore a request for help.

Dispossessed
------------

You have been disinherited or have had your birthright stolen from you.
Hit your key when you take action to restore your rightful title or
property.

*Buyoff:* Give up on restoring your birthright.

Gambler
-------

You can't pass up a chance at something great, no matter the odds, and
it's put you in debt. Hit your key when you take a wild chance or when
you act to get money to pay off your losses.

*Buyoff:* Play it safe or pay off your debt.

Greed
-----

You suffer from avarice. Hit your key when you steal something cool or
score a big payoff.

*Buyoff:* Swear off stealing forever.

Hidden Family
-------------

You are the long-lost sibling of one of your companions, though they
don't know it yet. Hit your key when you protect or nurture them.

*Buyoff:* Disown or betray your sibling.

Hidden Longing
--------------

You are completely enthralled by one of your companions but you don't
want them to know it. Hit your key when you make a decision based on
this secret affection or when you somehow show it indirectly.

*Buyoff:* Give up on your secret desire or make it public.

Honest
------

Your family made their money skirting the law, but you always made a
fair day's pay for a fair day's work. Hit your key whenever you deal
fairly with someone else or follow the law at your own expense.

*Buyoff:* Cheat, lie or steal.

Honor
-----

You abide by a strict code of honor. Hit your key whenever you make a
decision influenced by your code of honor or keep your word.

*Buyoff:* Do something underhanded and dishonorable.

Kindness
--------

You are a compassionate person, however much you might try to hide it.
Hit your key whenever you show kindness or mercy.

*Buyoff:* Hurt someone you didn't have to.

Law
---

You have a deep and abiding respect for the law. Hit your key when you
act to uphold the law or prevent a crime.

*Buyoff:* Break the law.

Lust
----

Your great weakness is debauchery and licentiousness. Hit your key when
you give in to temptation instead of helping your companions.

*Buyoff:* Say no to a good time.

Naif/Naive
----------

You are especially naive. Hit your key whenever you are taken advantage
of.

*Buyoff:* Get the better of someone.

Pacifist
--------

You abhor violence and will take no part in it, no matter the cost. Hit
your key when you avoid using violence to solve your problems or dis-
approve of someone who does.

*Buyoff:* Commit an act of violence.

Poet
----

You have a way with words and a romantic soul. Hit your key when you say
something that moves the other players at the table.

*Buyoff:* You realize life is nasty, brutal, and short.

Power
-----

You desire power above all else. Hit your key when you pursue your own
ascendancy over the safety and security of your companions.

*Buyoff:* Relinquish all your authority.

Prudence
--------

You are focused on doing the little things that help your companions
succeed, playing conservatively to the odds.

*Buyoff:* Take a big risk or go for glory.

Rival
-----

You hate someone. Hit your key when you outperform or outfox them in any
arena.

*Buyoff:* Decline to compete against them.

Showoff
-------

Your accomplishments outshine all others, or at least you're convinced
they do. Hit your key whenever you talk yourself up or do something to
try to impress others.

*Buyoff:* Don't take credit for a notable deed.

Vow
---

You have a vow of personal behavior that you have sworn not to break.
Hit your key when your vow significantly impacts your decisions.

*Buyoff:* Break your vow.
