======
Gossip
======

.. epigraph::
   Remember that we are English... every man is surrounded by a
   neighbourhood of voluntary spies.

   -- Henry Tilney, in *Northanger Abbey* by Jane Austen

As you play, you will see scene breaks; one bit of action or drama in
one place is over, and another begins elsewhere. At these breaks, anyone
may call for *Gossip*. Take a momentary break, and discuss the scene
that just happened as though you are the people in town, or the
audience, mysteriously privy to all that happened. Each player may ask
about any of the reputations on their character sheet, and the rest of
the players (including the Host) should decide together whether that
character expressed or upheld that reputation. If they did, give them a
role token.

.. topic:: Privacy

   As the quote from Henry Tilney above suggests, privacy is somewhat of
   a fiction in this time and place. You live a life surrounded by
   others: the rich have servants, the poor have family and neighbours,
   and everyone has their noses in everyone's business. Gossip travels
   up and down the social ladder, and while something done in purest
   solitude may, under normal circumstances, be kept secret, in this
   Regency, there are people who speak the languages of the stones, the
   trees, and the birds. Unless you can swear them to secrecy, every
   secret eventually finds its way out. Even then, a town where everyone
   knows a secret but everyone is sworn to keep it is not uncommon!

Any reputation that has had all four boxes checked is replaced with the
*bad reputation* in brackets, and can no longer provide role tokens. So
for example a Gentleman who has checked all four boxes next to "display
good judgment" has earned himself a reputation as a *fool*, and can no
longer gain role tokens for displaying good judgment.

Once a bad reputation has been earned, it can under some circumstances
be recovered and changed. See :ref:`Recovery, Growth, and Change`.

How to spot a scene end
-----------------------

As the Host, you should in particular keep an eye out for the end of a
scene, and remind people to call for Gossip.

Knowing where to cut a scene is a lifelong practice, but there are a few
things to watch for:

 * A revelation.
 * A changed relationship.
 * A decisive assertion of power.
 * A decisive upset.

An example
----------

A scene with the main characters Miss Bellamy and Ben Cull, and the
supporting character Jane Cull has just come to a close. Miss Bellamy
was talking furtively with Jane near the kitchens at Longford, when Ben
came up to confront his sister Jane. Miss Bellamy leapt to her
maidservant's defense, and Ben told her he knew just as well what she
was up to, speaking with fairies an' all. She reminded him of his place,
and told him he had better keep quiet, and leave his sister alone, as
who would believe a groom over the Squire's granddaughter?

The two players involved in the scene each go over their reputations,
asking the table whether they lived up to them. First, Miss Bellamy:
"Did I assist the family proper?" Everyone else at the table discusses:

"Well, you were sorting out a disagreement between the servants, and
that's helpful."

"But would the family have even noticed if two of their servants, a
groom and a chamber maid with airs, were having trouble? Would they
care?"

"If Miss Bellamy hadn't stepped in and put her foot down, there'd be
talk in town, if someone saw Jane red-eyed or worried later."

That last decides it: Miss Bellamy gets a token for helping the family.

Next, "Did I do as I was told?" Well, the table agree quickly that she
did not, not least of all because there was no one socially her superior
to tell her what to do. Same with being "seen and not heard": she very
much asserted herself.

Now, it is Ben's turn: "Did I do as I was told?" There's a laugh of
agreement at the table, "Absolutely you did, you backed down when she
reminded you of your social status. Take a token."

"Did I keep a confidence?" The table murmurs. "No, it didn't really come
up, but if it had, threatening to tell what your sister and the Squire's
ward are up to would hardly count, even if you don't carry through on
that threat."

"Did I put my own needs last?" This is a hard one, and after much
discussion of what Ben's needs actually *are* at this moment, the table
decides that he did, by conceding to Miss Bellamy, though it was clearly
under duress. Still, he gets another token. Getting two tokens to Miss
Bellamy's one isn't a bad trade-off for failing to get what he hoped for
in the scene.
