.. _magic:

Magic
=====

Magic is English, and of the land. Fairy magic is not, it is a different
thing from a different world and can do other things than English magic.
But English magic lets you do enough: it lets you pass between worlds,
it lets you see far away. It lets you manipulate the weather, it lets
you make protective and ensnaring labyrinths. It summons spirits of the
dead, or creatures from the other worlds. It might even let you take on
the shapes of animals, meld into the shadows, or curse someone to die
alone and unloved.

When a character goes to cast a spell, they have two options: either
they ask a fairy to do the magic for them, or they risk casting the
spell themselves. In the former case, it is necessary simply to find a
fairy, and use the rules for :ref:`petition`.

The latter case, though, is where things get interesting.

Magic is a force of nature. Accessing magic is making cracks in this
world to let some force in, and hopefully neither too little or too
much. To do this, you have to do things that seem almost mundane:
putting the right things in the right place, chanting, candles, midnight
crossroads. Magic is wilderness. It does not care whether you live or
die. It will use violence without consulting you.

The player should describe the effect they desire, using either one of
the existing spells (see :ref:`spells`) or making their own along those
lines.

.. topic:: The Limits of Magic

   One very important caveat to remember is this: magic cannot create
   something out of nothing. It has to have something to work from.
   Cinderella's coach is made from a pumpkin, after all. Even magic to
   pass between worlds requires something to work from: a mirror, a
   doorway, a shadow.

   Further, while magic can substantially transmute and transform one
   thing into another, it cannot do so with feelings. Love spells are a
   promise as old as humanity, but an empty one. Some things are beyond
   even magical forces.

.. todo::

   How do you determine AoE and duration on spells? Do you wager passion
   tokens on them? Or do you straight up spend passion tokens?

To cast the spell, you must know two numbers: the threshold, and the
limit. You will describe the ritual, each step you take giving you a
card. If your cards total at or above the threshold, the spell works. If
they surpass the limit, you have let too much into the world: your spell
works, but beyond what you intended. You will also have to pay a cost:
either increasing the power of the fairy (see :ref:`threats`), or
risking your own soul and walking a step closer to becoming a
:ref:`fetch`.

The threshold is 21. The limit is the GM's hand. After each draw on the
spellcaster's part, the GM will draw, or stay put, depending: if they
have 16 or less, they must draw. If they have 17 or more, they must not
draw. Basically, this is blackjack. But if you go bust (surpass the
limit), you still get a magical effect. Also, side effects and
corruption, so.

.. todo::
   Perhaps you wager passion tokens on effect size? And if you bust or
   fail, you lose them, but otherwise, you keep them?

When you cast a spell, whether it fails, works, or explodes in your
face, the GM should describe the effect with as much attention to the
land and the season as they can.

Corruption
----------

When a magician casts a spell and surpasses the limit, they open
themselves to *corruption*. Draw a card and place it in front of you.
Keep all cards you draw for corruption in front of you for the duration
of the session; at the end of the session, return them to the deck.

Each time you draw a card, if the cards in front of you total 16 or
more, gain a mark. The marks available to you are determined by your
Passion. Aces are 1, faces are 10. If the cards in front of you total 21
or more, gain two marks.

If you check the final mark (either because it is the only mark
remaining, or because you have chosen to), magic has burnt out your
soul, and you become a fetch, a human shell hollowed out and driven by
fairy fire. Your soul is lost. Your character should be passed over to
the GM to play, unless you wish to continue playing your character as a
dangerous and amoral *thing* with a limited lifespan.

As a fetch, you keep as many :index:`passion tokens <passion tokens>` as
they had at the moment they transformed. Once these tokens are spent,
the fetch's flame gutters out.

Fairy Magic
-----------

Fairy magic, of course, is different.

.. epigraph::

   Only an obstinate prejudice about this period could blind us to a
   certain change which comes over the merely literary texts as we pass
   from the Middle Ages to the sixteenth century. In medieval stories
   there is, in one sense, plenty of "magic". Merlin does this or that
   "by his subtilty", Bercilak resumes his severed head. But all these
   passages have unmistakably the note of "faerie" about them. But in
   Spenser, Marlowe, Chapman, and Shakespeare the subject is treated
   quite differently. "He to his studie goes"; books are opened,
   terrible words pronounced, souls imperiled. The medieval author seems
   to write for a public to whom magic, like knight-errantry, is part of
   the furniture of romance: the Elizabethan, for a public who feel that
   it might be going on in the next street. [...] Neglect of this point
   has produced strange readings of *The Tempest*, which is in reality
   [...] Shakespeare's play on *magia* as *Macbeth* is his play on
   *goeteia*.

   -- C. S. Lewis, *English Literature in the Sixteenth Century,
   Excluding Drama*

.. todo:: Example:

   Add example of magic use.
