============================
Making Characters and a Town
============================

When you sit down to play, one person will play the role of the *Host*,
and will be responsible for adversity, supporting characters, fairies
and goblins, and orchestrating affairs. Everyone else will play the main
characters. You should come to the table with no strong image of who you
may play, as things work best when everyone makes their characters
together, and fit them into the town where they will be living.

Once you've made your main characters to play, it will be your duty each
to play those characters with integrity, saying what they say, do, hope,
and feel. The Host will play the rest of the world with integrity,
saying what the supporting characters say, do, hope, and feel, and how
the world reacts to your characters as they try to carve out a space for
themselves.

Decide on some facts about the world
------------------------------------

The very first thing to do is to decide, together, how your town views
the revival of English magic, and who the revivalist was. This doesn't
have to take a lot of time or be a big question, but it will
contextualize the rest of the choices you make.

Was the revivalist a gentleman of obscure birth? A lady of good family?
A strange foreign man? A wild and mysterious old woman? Someone else?

How do people feel about the attempt to revive English magic? Perhaps it
is a tragedy the Revival failed; England needs magic now more than ever.
Or perhaps it is a relief the Revival failed; magic is a distraction and
unbecoming. Maybe even the revival was a sham; the government wasted
money on it and the military wasted time. Or the revival was a sham,
because magic was always a sham; the stories of Myrddin and the Ladies
of the Lake are unsubstantiated old legends. I ask only that you recall
that English magic is not called witchcraft, and there is no
Inquisition.

Make the town
-------------

At the outset of the game, the characters all live in the same place, in
a small town or village in England. While this may change over the
course of play, it grounds the characters and situates them in a
community. "Three or four families in a country village is the very
thing to work on," as Jane Austen said.

You can either use a premade town, or make your own. There are rules for
making a town in :ref:`Appendix: Towns`, but for now, let's assume you
have a completed town.

A town provides three crucial things: families, connections, and
geography. Your characters can come from any of the listed families, or
one unlisted. Your character will have some connections, based on
answering questions on the town sheet. Your character will live and
travel in the geography described. The families and geography are
intended to be suggestive, and allow for elaboration or alteration. The
connections should be taken more or less as-written, though if you and
the table agree that some question should be adjusted or slanted or
altered, who am I to stop you?

Make the main characters
------------------------

Once you have a context, make your characters. The first step is to
**choose a role**. If you have concerns about playing any of the twelve
social roles, feel free to select one. If you feel you are up for a
challenge, draw two at random, and choose one from between those two.
You don't always get to have the role in life you hoped for, and this
can provoke you to play a surprising character.

Once you have your role, **choose your given name and family name**
(perhaps using a family name from the town sheet), briefly describe your
look, and choose your age, best accomplishment, and manner. Save your
hope for later.

Take a **look at your reputations**. These will describe how society
expects you to behave. Should you fail in this, you may earn a bad
reputation, in brackets.

In coordination with the other players, now **fill out your
connections**. If there are two main characters, answer all four
questions for your role. If there are three or four main characters,
answer any three you like. If there are five main characters, answer any
two you like. You can answer with a mix of other main characters, and
supporting characters you or the host make up on the spot. Many answers
will suggest other supporting characters, too, which the Host will note
down for their own record-keeping. One of your answers should touch on
the magical: either the person or the nature of your connection should
include a magical element.

Now that you know some of who you are and how you fit into the
community, choose a hope. This is your heart's desire. The thing you
would give your very world for. Choose:

 * I hope to marry for love.
 * I hope to be revenged upon (here name someone beyond your station).
 * I hope to have land or money enough to live on.
 * I hope to know and be known by my family.
 * I hope to sleep with (here name someone beyond your station).
 * I hope to have my love for (here name a supporting character)
   returned.
 * I hope to be showered with glory.
 * I hope to see justice for (here name a supporting character).
 * ... or something else.

Next, turn to the inside of your role book. Here you will find the
personal and magical. First, your character has two boons: a star,
personal to them and the moment of their birth, and a root, shared with
their family. If you have chosen to be part of one of the great local
families, mark the root that comes with them. If you have not, you and
any other main characters who you share a family with should choose and
mark one root together. Then, individually, choose and mark a star.

Finally, choose two spells. The spells are organized into arts, within
which there are tiers. The first tier is the apprentice, then the
journeyman, then the master. Choose an apprentice spell from each of two
arts. Why are you a magician? What do you want, what are you, that
society cannot accept and that drives you to understand magic? How did
you learn your spells?

Now, you should be ready to play.
