========================
Leaving things to Chance
========================

As you play, there will be moments where the outcome is uncertain, and
you will not find the host simply deciding based on their principles
satisfying. Sometimes this is because a main character wants to achieve
something, and sometimes it is because they want to avoid a danger.

In these moments, a player may put forward an outcome, either a risk
they wish to avoid or a reward they hope to achieve. The host will then
add one or two other facets to the table, resulting in a mix of possible
outcomes in the moment.

The player then draws cards, and assigns them to the outcomes, to answer
the questions of the moment.

Risks & rewards
---------------

There are a particular set of risks and rewards to bring to bear in this
game. For the full set, see :ref:`appendix-Outcomes`.

Procedure
---------

Once there are outcomes on the table, shuffle the deck (keeping any
cards that have already been used for magic separate, as always), and
draw two cards. If you have acted in accord with a star or root, deal
one more card for each of those you have enacted. You may also spend
role tokens one-for-one to get more cards. Once you have checked your
stars and roots, and spent any role tokens you wish to spend, you may
look at the cards you have drawn.

If you have marked any passions or wounds, and that passion or wound
would impede or influence any of the outcomes on the table, you must now
discard the highest-value card you have of each suit matching your
passions and wounds.

.. sidebar:: Passions and wounds

    * Irate: discard your highest spade.
    * Insecure: discard your highest heart.
    * Morose: discard your highest club.
    * Indecisive: discard your highest diamond.
    * Slight wound: discard your highest black card.
    * Grave wound: discard your highest red card.
    * Mortal wound: discard your highest card.

   All of these apply, in the order listed. So if you are irate, and
   have both a slight and a mortal wound, you must first discard your
   highest spade, then your highest remaining black card, then your
   highest remaining card.

Now, allocate one card per outcome, setting aside any extras. If you
have too few cards, treat any outcome with no card on it as though it
had an ace on it.

Interpret the outcomes based on the cards you've put on them, then
shuffle all the cards you drew back into the deck.

An example
----------

Mr. Nightingale, the vicar, has come to visit Longford in the hopes of
some time alone with Miss Bellamy, but Mrs. Bellamy, her grandmother,
has cornered him with some concerns about the scriptures. As the three
of them sit in the drawing room, Miss Bellamy gazing longingly at the
beautiful spring day outside, Mr. Nightingale attempts to *speak
secretly* to Miss Bellamy, to tell her he has feelings for her. "Well,
you see, you must consider this passage in light of the Song of Solomon,
one of the most romantic parts of the Bible..." The Host
considers the situation, and decides that he's risking *making a
misstep*. The worst he could do would be say something awkwardly overt,
so it's no going to be *embarrassing himself*.

He considers his stars and roots: Rowan, the realist, would give him a
card if he could explain that there's no other option than the one he
sets out. Jupiter, the Ruler, would give him a card if he invoked his
rightful authority over someone else. While he can see how to involve
either of these easily with his scriptural interpretation, they both
feel a bit inappropriate for a veiled confession of love.

He has one more way to get extra cards here, and that is to spend role
tokens: he'll willingly spend one, so he has two outcomes and three
cards to assign to them.

He draws: the seven of clubs, ace of hearts, and four of spades. This is
not good. The ace and the four are both bad outcomes, and the seven is a
middling outcome. He counts his blessings that he has not had to mark
"morose" and thus discard the seven. He tosses the ace, and puts the
seven on *speak secretly* and the four on *make a misstep*. He
communicates his feelings for Miss Bellamy, very clearly to both her and
her grandmother. As slipping such amorous hints into his scriptural
interpretation is hardly a good example of Christian morality, he marks
a reputation towards "hypocritical".
