========
Outcomes
========

As you play, you'll describe what you do, say, and feel, and the Host
will describe how the supporting characters act, how the world around
you is, and so on. When you do something risky, uncertain, or just
*important*, you'll have to use the playing cards to determine some
outcomes.

The Host will, in collaboration with everyone else at the table, figure
out which outcomes are relevant. Typically, they will choose between
three and five outcomes, though sometimes fewer and rarely, more. Every
once in a while, they may need to come up with a custom outcome on the
spot, and should make clear what the options on that outcome are.

Then, the Host should ask the player whether they are doing the thing at
hand *recklessly* or *politely*. (There are some restrictions on this
question, see below.) If they have barged into a room shouting, and say
that they are doing it politely, the table is free to insist otherwise,
and they may amend their description of their recent actions to better
suit how they intend to approach the moment of uncertainty. Or,
contrariwise, if they have sat patiently and spoken cautiously, the
table can ask how that could be reckless, and it is up to the player to
adjust or explain.

Then, the player draws, but does not look at, one card per outcome. They
may choose to spend tokens to draw additional cards: role tokens if they
are acting politely, and passion tokens if they are acting recklessly.
If they are acting recklessly, they draw one additional card as long as
they spend one token. (So, with one token, they draw two extras, and
with two tokens, they draw three, and so on.)

They then look at the cards they have drawn, and assign them to
outcomes. Any excess cards they can discard. If they have acted
recklessly, they *must* play the lowest-valued card in their hand on to
one outcome.

If the player has any conditions or wounds that apply, then certain
suits will count as Aces *once they have been played*. There is a subtle
interaction here: say you have the condition "befuddled" and all hearts
count as aces. Say you have acted recklessly, and drawn five cards for
three outcomes: K |hearts|, Q |spades|, 9 |clubs|, 8 |clubs|, 6
|diamonds|. The King would count as an Ace when you play it, but it does
not count as an Ace for the purposes of determining the lowest card in
your hand, which you must play somewhere because you acted recklessly.
So you must play the six, and then you may choose whichever two other
cards you wish to play (but you probably don't want to play the King!)

If an outcome says "keep", the card you play on it is removed from the
deck and kept separately until the end of the session.

When you cast a spell, the question is not do you do it "recklessly or
politely", but rather, "recklessly or cautiously". In the former case,
you may spend passion tokens for extra cards, but in the latter case,
you may not spend anything for extra cards.

Particular outcomes
-------------------

Here are some things that can be uncertain.

.. admonition:: Achievement

   When you may or may not achieve a concrete goal you set out to do,
   use this outcome. Examples include hitting a target in an archery
   competition, winning a game of cards, or remaining hidden in a
   graveyard at midnight while the sexton and his rough-handed friends
   search for you.

   -  With a face, you do it with distinction: someone present is
      impressed.
   -  With a 6 to 10, you do what you set out to do.
   -  With an A to 5, you fail as badly as possible.

.. admonition:: Entreaty of a supporting character

   When you may or may not convince a supporting character to act as you
   wish, use this outcome. If the character agrees, it is that simple.
   If they resist, use this outcome.

   You may only entreat a character to an action, not to a feeling. You
   may beg forgiveness, and entreat them to *say* they offer it, but
   their feelings are their own.

   -  With a face, they will do what you wish on the strength of your
      word or friendship.
   -  With a 6 to 10, they will do what you ask if you provide a
      compelling reason, collateral, or assurance.
   -  With an A to 5, they will reject your request.

.. admonition:: Entreaty of a main character

   When you attempt to convince another main character to act as you
   wish, *the choice is always theirs*, but you may exert some social
   pressure. Use this outcome to do so. If the character agrees, it is
   that simple. If they resist, use this outcome.

   You may only entreat a character to an action, not to a feeling. You
   may beg forgiveness, and entreat them to *say* they offer it, but
   their feelings are their own.

   -  With a face, if they do what you ask, they gain a role token. If
      they refuse, you may mark a reputation of theirs.
   -  With a 6 to 10, choose one: the gain a role token if they do it,
      you mark a reptuation of theirs if they do not.
   -  With an A to 5, you have no particular leverage.

.. admonition:: Bodily harm

   When you may suffer wounds or illness, use this outcome. See
   :ref:`Harm and Healing` for more on wounds and impairment.

   -  With a face, you avoid injury.
   -  With a 6 to 10, you suffer a lesser form of the injury at hand.
   -  With an A to 5, you suffer the full form of the injury at hand.

.. admonition:: Social risk

   When you may make a good or a bad impression, or acquit yourself with
   grace or with shame, use this outcome.

   -  With a face, you may erase a mark from one of your reputations, if
      it has fewer than four marks already.
   -  With a 6 to 10, you don't mark a reputation.
   -  With an A to 5, you will at least mark a reputation, and the Host
      may describe worse outcomes.

.. admonition:: Emotional risk

   When a situation may result in emotional stress, use this outcome.
   See :ref:`Harm and Healing` for more on conditions.

   -  With a face, you keep your cool.
   -  With a 6 to 10, choose: mark a condition, or make an unseemly
      outburst.
   -  With an A to 5, you will at least mark a condition, and the Host
      may describe worse outcomes.

.. admonition:: Effect of a spell (keep card)

   When you cast a spell, use this outcome. A strong effect may be
   quicker, more reliable, more difficult to resist, or otherwise, as
   appropriate.

   -  With a face, the spell is strong and controlled.
   -  With a 6 to 10, the spell is strong or controlled, your choice.
   -  With an A to 5, the Host will tell you how it goes wrong.

.. admonition:: Magical discovery

   When you may learn mystical secrets, use this outcome.

   -  With a face, mark a secret.
   -  With a 6 to 10, you are stymied.
   -  With an A to 5, mark a secret, and the fairy gains a strand on
      you.

.. admonition:: Rumours

   When you ...

   -  With a face, no rumours will take hold.
   -  With a 6 to 10, many will not believe the rumours.
   -  With an A to 5, the rumours that spread are all too plausible.

.. admonition:: Gambling

   When you ...

   -  With a face, you win as much as you might reasonably win.
   -  With a 6 to 10, you lose only a small amount.
   -  With an A to 5, you lose more than you hoped you might.

.. admonition:: Insight

   When you ...

   -  With a face, ask two questions from the list below.
   -  With a 6 to 10, ask one question from the list below.
   -  With an A to 5, you reveal more of yourself than you read of
      someone else.

   Questions:

   -  are you speaking the truth?
   -  what do you wish I would do?
   -  what do you intend to do?
   -  how do you feel about this?
   -  how could I get you to...?

.. admonition:: Secret Communication

   When you ...

   -  With a face, you communicate clearly and secretly.
   -  With a 6 to 10, choose: something crucial is misunderstood (their
      choice); someone else picks up on the message; it is clear that
      you are communicating secretly.
   -  With an A to 5, the worst comes to pass.

.. admonition:: Capture

   When you ...

   -  With a face, you make headway: the fairy loses a strand on you.
   -  With a 6 to 10, you resist the fairy for now.
   -  With an A to 5, you are captured and may *disappear*.

.. admonition:: Disappear

   When you ...

   -  With a face, you hold on to your hopes, memories, and loves.
   -  With a 6 to 10, you lose something to Arcadia: a memory, a hope, a love.
   -  With an A to 5, you are lost forever to the fairy's realm.

Custom outcomes
---------------

As the Host, you can make custom outcomes! Consider if someone's lost in
the woods (or in a magical labyrinth). Outcomes can define how long it
takes to get out, or how desperately lost you become, or similar.
Similarly, you could make an outcome for financial risk: from ruin to
hitting the jackpot. Or perhaps you wish to communicate secretly:
outcomes may include being misunderstood, or overheard.

Generally an outcome is like this: A to 5, the worst possible result. 6
to 10, middling, compromised, or contingent. Face, best possible.

You can adjust the scale of actions as needed; sometimes zoom in or out.
One test can cover an evening with a suitor, or a moment with them on
the dance floor.

Harm and Healing
----------------

Certain outcomes can lead to harm and impairment. There are three basic
kinds: social, physical, and emotional. Under certain circumstances, you
may also expose yourself to financial, mystical, or other impairment.

Social harm results in degraded reputations and can hamper your ability
to continue to get role tokens. When you have checked all four boxes on
a reputation, it is destroyed. You cannot get it back, and you can never
gain role tokens from that reputation again. If all your reputations are
fully marked, you are ruined.

Physical harm results in injury and potentially death. When you are
injured, you will heal with time and rest (or, perhaps, with magic), but
until then, any action you undertake where your injury might impede you
suffers. If you are injured, treat all clubs as aces. If you are gravely
injured, treat all clubs and spades as aces. If you are injured, and
become injured again, you are now gravely injured.

If you are mortally injured, you will die without swift magical
intervention. You may have time for some last words, and to reconcile
yourself to whatever fate your God keeps for those who work magic.

Emotional harm comes in the form of conditions. You have four
conditions: angry, befuddled, shaken, embarrassed. When that condition
might impede you, each one makes a different suit count as aces:

-  Angry: Spades
-  Befuddled: Hearts
-  Shaken: Clubs
-  Embarrassed: Diamonds

These will go away with time and comfort.

.. todo::

   Reshape outcomes to frame them a bit more aggressively. Break up
   "social harm" into "when you make a fool of yourself" and "when you
   might come off badly", etc. Let there be judgment about just which
   applies. Thus certain actions could put you in a position with fewer
   and worse outcomes than others.

   Otherwise, as it stands now, there's no good way to say "That's
   socially *ruinous*" vs "That's socially risky".
