---
layout: page
title: PbtA
permalink: /rules/pbta/
---

# Regency World

A PbtA rendition of _Arcadia_.

## Themes

  * Gossip
  * Reputation
  * Who-you-know
  * Health
  * Introductions
  * Secret communication
  * Gothic/humanist
  * Social class

## GM Rules

### Agenda

### Principles

### Moves

## Stats

Rollables:

  * Commanding
  * Graceful
  * Insightful (need more)
  * Practical (need more)
  * Uncanny (need more)

Unrollables:

  * Social Standing
  * Fortune
  * XP
  * Strings

## Moves

These are the moves.

### Sporting & Fighting

#### Milling

#### Riding

#### Shooting

#### Duelling

The challenged party chooses the weapons.

If you **duel by swords** against an NPC, roll Commanding. On a 10+, you have
them at your mercy: you may choose to kill, wound, or release them, as you
wish. On a 7-9, choose: you have them at your mercy, but you have been gravely
wounded; or you have fought to a stand-still. Against a PC, roll Commanding. On
a 10+, choose two. On a 7-9, choose one:

  * You wound them gravely.
  * You see into them: ask a question as per _Reading hidden feelings_.
  * You fight honourably.

If you **duel by pistols** against an NPC, simply roll. On a 10+, they have not
meaningfully wounded you, and you have wounded them, the GM will say how badly.
On a 7-9, choose: you have both missed, or you are both grievously wounded.
Against a PC, choose who fires first, and take turns rolling. On a 10+, you
have grievously wounded the other. On a 7-9, you have drawn blood: they may
choose to concede, or continue.

_Some playbooks may have bonuses to apply here; the Officer, for example, may
take a move giving bonuses to any roll using swords or pistols._

#### Brutalizing

When you **set out to fuck someone up** who is vulnerable to you, roll
Commanding. On a 10+, you have them at your mercy: do what you will. On a 7-9,
choose one:

  * You've caught them off-guard.
  * You've got an alibi.
  * You won't harm them more than you intend.

### Socializing

There are a few kinds of socialization of particular note.

#### Confiding

#### Convincing

> TODO:
>
> There should be a distinction between exercising your authority to get
> someone to do something, and using your relationship.

When you try to **convince someone of something**, tell them what you want them
to do, give them a reason, and roll Commanding. For NPCs: on a 10+, they’ll go
along with you, unless or until some fact or action betrays the reason you gave
them. On a 7–9, they’ll go along with you, but they need some concrete
assurance, corroboration, or evidence first.

For PCs: on a 10+, both. On a 7–9, choose 1:

  - If they go along with you, ...
  - If they refuse, ...

What they do then is up to them.

On a miss, for either NPCs or PCs, be prepared for the worst.

#### Flirting

When you **flirt with someone**, roll Graceful. On a hit, take a String on
them. On a 7-9, also, choose one:

  - Your actions are not unbecoming.
  - No more is read into your flirting than you intend.
  - They promise you something they think you want, their choice.

#### Insulting

#### Making introductions

When you **first meet another character**, roll Graceful. On a hit, take a
String with them. On a 10+, also take +1 forward in the rest of the scene. On a
miss, you have somehow made a misstep or offended them.

#### Reading hidden feelings

When you **read someone's hidden feelings**, spend a String to ask them one of
the following questions, one for one.

  * What do you value most here?
  * Are you speaking the truth?
  * What do you wish I would do?
  * What do you intend to do?

### Peripheral

#### Gambling

When you **gamble money on a game of chance** (cards, dice, or something else),
simply roll.

On a 7-9, choose one. On a 10+, choose two:

  * You win, and may bolster your Fortune.
  * You gain information from the conversation: ask one other participant a
    question as per _Reading hidden feelings_.
  * Your behavior is not seen as improper in any way.

On a miss, your Fortune is taxed at a minimum, and possibly worse.

#### Journeying

When you **undertake an overland journey** requiring any of speed, secrecy, or
economy, tell the GM how you're traveling:

  * On foot
  * On horseback
  * By carriage
  * By wagon
  * By the mail coach

If you must travel quickly, roll Commanding. If you must travel secretly, roll
Graceful. If you must travel economically, roll your Practical.

If you roll Commanding:

On a hit, you get there as fast as your mode of travel will allow. On a 7-9,
you tax your Fortune, or you run into someone you'd rather not see, the GM will
tell you which.

If you roll Graceful:

On a hit, you get there with no one the wiser. On a 7-9, you tax your Fortune,
or the journey takes longer than you'd like, your choice.

If you roll Practical:

On a hit, you get there. On a 7-9, you tax your fortune, and on a miss, worse.

#### Making art

When you **make art**, roll your Insightful. On a 10+, you have made the best
art you could. Choose one:

  * It will impress someone (name who).
  * It will sell (bolster your Fortune).
  * ...

On a 7-9, ...

### Spell-casting

Magic is part of these isles, as much a part of it as the rain.

#### To break a magical ward

#### To create a magical ward

#### To find someone or something by magic

#### To predict the future

#### To speak with the recently dead

#### To transform a living being

#### To transmute materials

#### To travel to a place by magic
