# Regency World

A PbtA rendition of _Arcadia_.

## Themes

  * Gossip
  * Reputation
  * Who-you-know
  * Health
  * Introductions
  * Secret communication
  * Gothic/humanist
  * Social class

## GM Rules

### Agenda

### Principles

### Moves

## Stats:

Rollables:

  * Commanding
  * Graceful
  * Insightful
  * Make-Shift
  * Relationships (per-person)

Unrollables:

  * Social Standing
  * Fortune

XP

## Games

### Fighting

A fight is a serious matter.

#### Duelling

The challenged party chooses the weapons.

If you **duel by swords** against an NPC, roll Commanding. On a 10+, you have
them at your mercy: you may choose to kill, wound, or release them, as you
wish. On a 7-9, choose: you have them at your mercy, but you have been gravely
wounded; or you have fought to a stand-still. Against a PC, roll Commanding. On
a 10+, choose two. On a 7-9, choose one:

  * You wound them gravely.
  * You see into them: ask a question as per _Reading hidden feelings_.
  * You fight honourably.

If you **duel by pistols** against an NPC, simply roll. On a 10+, they have not
meaningfully wounded you, and you have wounded them, the GM will say how badly.
On a 7-9, choose: you have both missed, or you are both grievously wounded.
Against a PC, choose who fires first, and take turns rolling. On a 10+, you
have grievously wounded the other. On a 7-9, you have drawn blood: they may
choose to concede, or continue.

_Some playbooks may have bonuses to apply here; the Officer, for example, may
take a move giving bonuses to any roll using swords or pistols._

#### Brutalizing

When you **set out to fuck someone up** who is vulnerable to you, roll
Commanding. On a 10+, you have them at your mercy: do what you will. On a 7-9,
choose one:

  * You've caught them off-guard.
  * You've got an alibi.
  * You won't harm them more than you intend.

### Gambling

When you **gamble money on a game of chance** (cards, dice, or something else),
simply roll.

On a 7-9, choose one. On a 10+, choose two:

  * You win, and may bolster your Fortune.
  * You gain information from the conversation: ask one other participant a
    question as per _Reading hidden feelings_.
  * Your behavior is not seen as improper in any way.

On a miss, your Fortune is taxed at a minimum, and possibly worse.

### Journeying

When you **undertake an overland journey** requiring any of speed, secrecy, or
economy, tell the GM how you're traveling:

  * On foot
  * On horseback
  * By carriage
  * By wagon
  * By the mail coach

If you must travel quickly, roll Commanding. If you must travel secretly, roll
Graceful. If you must travel economically, roll your Make-Shift.

If you roll Commanding:

On a hit, you get there as fast as your mode of travel will allow. On a 7-9,
you tax your Fortune, or you run into someone you'd rather not see, the GM will
tell you which.

If you roll Graceful:

On a hit, you get there with no one the wiser. On a 7-9, you tax your Fortune,
or the journey takes longer than you'd like, your choice.

If you roll Make-Shift:

On a hit, you get there. On a 7-9, you tax your fortune, and on a miss, worse.

### Making art

When you **make art**, roll your Insightful. On a 10+, you have made the best
art you could. Choose one:

  * It will impress someone (name who).
  * It will sell (bolster your Fortune).
  * ...

On a 7-9, ...

### Socializing

When you socialize with a goal in mind

#### Conversing
#### Convincing
#### Dancing
#### Dining
#### Flirting
#### Making introductions

When **first meeting another character**, roll Graceful. On a 10+, you have
made a very good impression, and start with a relationship of 2 with them. On a
7-9, you have made an unremarkable impression, and start with a relationship of
0 with them. On a miss, you have some how made a misstep or offended them;
start with a relationship of -1.

#### Reading hidden feelings

When you **read someone's hidden feelings**, roll your relationship with them.
On a 10+, hold three. On a 7-9, hold one. You may spend your hold 1-1 to ask
the following questions and get an honest answer during your interaction with
them:

  * What
  * How
  * Who
  * ...

### Spell-casting

### Sporting
#### Milling
#### Riding
#### Shooting
