.. _recovery, growth, and change:

============================
Recovery, Growth, and Change
============================

Over play, characters will acquire various scars: magical marks, damaged
reputations, wounds, and runaway emotions. You have to be able to
recover, right?

Passions and wounds
-------------------

Recovering passions is relatively straightforward: either be comforted,
or do a particular kind of thing, depending on the passion.

For each passion you have, if you did the following, at the end of the
scene, clear the associated passion:

 * Irate: If you vented your spleen on someone or something.
 * Insecure: If you acted decisively with no forethought.
 * Morose: If you wallowed in an indulgence.
 * Indecisive: If you missed a vital opportunity.

Recovering wounds is harder. Period medical care is shaky at best, and
magical medical care has its own difficulties. But at the end of a
scene, check:

 * Slight: If you received medical care, magical or mundane, clear this
   wound.
 * Grave: If you received mundane medical care to stabilize your wounds,
   you may clear this wound at the start of the next session. If you
   received magical medical care, you can clear this wound. Otherwise,
   mark "Mortal" at the start of the next scene.
 * Mortal: If you received magical medical care, you can remain
   suspended on the brink of death until a fairy or a similarly powerful
   being can pull you back. Otherwise, speak your last words, you are on
   death's door.

An Example
~~~~~~~~~~

The Dandy, Mr. Hawkes, has spent some time under the burden of a morose
passion. He decides that, to wallow in an indulgence, he will retreat to
his chambers and indulge in laudanum, leaving him useless and
intoxicated when Mr. Nightingale comes to visit him.

Magical marks
-------------

As you cast spells, you will eventually be marked by the magic you've
used. Marks come in two varieties: temporary, and permanent. Temporary
marks go away at the end of a session. Permanent marks don't go away.
It's that simple.

Becoming a fetch (or something else)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you take your fifth mark, whether the marks above it are permanent
or temporary, you become a *fetch*. Magic has burnt out your soul, and
you become a human shell hollowed out and driven by fairy fire. Your
soul is lost. Your character should be passed over to the Host to play,
unless you wish to continue playing your character as a dangerous and
amoral *thing* with a limited lifespan.

Certain spells can change your final mark from "become a fetch" to
other, stranger things. These include a *wraith*, a spirit and mind
without a body, cursed to linger on Earth, or *Glatisant*, the questing
beast pursued tirelessly by the Wild Hunt. In any case, the same
applies as for a fetch: unless you want to play a very different
character, pass your character to the Host, and they will know the
constraints governing your character's new existence.

Damaged reputations
-------------------

As you damage a reputation, you will check boxes next to it. There is no
way to uncheck those boxes, and once you have checked all four next to a
reputation, that reputation turns into a *bad reputation*. A bad
reputation cannot earn you role tokens.

However, if you begin a session with a bad reputation, and by the end of
the session the table agrees that you have both suffered for it, and
made amends and restitution as necessary, you can add a new reputation.
You will not have fully lived down your previous bad reputation, but you
have also earned a new one, and a new way to earn role tokens.

How to write a new reputation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Writing a new reputation is a chance to change the role society has for
you, and thus what society can accept. However, society does not change
rapidly and readily. When writing a new reputation, the player and the
Host should collaborate, in good faith as always, to write one that will
still present an interesting and difficult set of trade-offs for the
character.

Over the course of play, the characters' actions and the changes those
actions work on society may loosen this, but at the outset, Regency
England is a classist and sexist society, among other things. Any
reputation for a woman or a lower-class person will expect them to put
their own goals aside for those around them with more power and
privilege. Upending this in one go with a new reputation is usually much
less satisfying than gradually breaking down barriers and rewriting your
role in the world.

An Example
~~~~~~~~~~

The Clergyman, Mr. Nightingale, has earned himself a reputation as
*haughty*, and can no longer gain tokens through charity. If he spends a
session simply ignoring this fact, nothing changes. If he suffers for
his reputation for haughtiness, perhaps with his attempts at good deeds
being misinterpreted as self-interest or condescension, and makes
restitution, humbling himself before someone he has wronged, he can
rewrite the reputation.

Instead of being expected to show charity and concern, now, with the
collaboration of the others at the table, he is expected to stand up for
the least against the greatest, lest he become a *coward*. He writes the
new reputation, with four clean boxes, on his sheet, and begins his new
existence as a radical preacher.
