==============================
Sex, Class, Romance, and Genre
==============================

What follows are some essays on a few matters of particular concern to
the players of *Arcadia*.

How does this relate to Jane Austen?
====================================

One cannot talk about the Regency, and Regency fiction, without talking
about Jane Austen. She has defined our image of what the Regency was, or
at least, we think she has. To be honest, even for those of us who have
immersed ourselves in her writing, the film and TV adaptations of her
work still exert a tremendous influence on our understanding of the
time, place, and genre.

The first thing to say, then, on this subject, is that Jane Austen is a
terrible model for how to play characters in *Arcadia*.

In addition to the fact that her work is edited, and therefore can have
a kind of tightness and attention to detail that an improvisational
medium like a game can never achieve, she is also perhaps one of the
best writers in all of English literature. She can make characters who
seem [#]_ to have no problems engaging, which is a feat that I would not
suggest any player attempt. A character with problems and insecurities
is one with immediate needs and drives, and keeps you as a player
urgently engaged with the events of the game.

If you must take a Jane Austen character as a model, think of Lydia
Bennet, Catherine Morland, Marianne Dashwood. Think of Frank Churchill,
Colonel Brandon, John Willoughby. The romantic figures, the cads, the
people who do what they are not supposed to.

The second thing to say is that Jane Austen did not write romantic
comedies, and this game is not a game of romantic comedy.

She wrote love stories, yes. Jane Austen's heroines end up with a
suitable romantic match. But the screen adaptations of her work always
bend the story to fit the demands of the similar-but-different genre of
romantic comedy. In her books, romance is not merely fated: it is sought
and it is chosen over alternatives of security, stability, suitability.
Her characters find themselves making difficult choices that sometimes
pit them against the expectations of society, and they don't simply fall
for a *romantic* hero, but rather someone who can be an equal, a
complement, and a collaborator.

This game, though, is perhaps more tragic. While the characters are by
no means doomed to a bad ending, the road they travel is a hard one, and
an alienating one. No magician settles down to a happily-ever-after.
Even a romance between magicians is a relationship defined around the
work, and the risks and hazards that come with it.

Playing with Romance
====================

Romance. It's the natural next word after "Regency". Whether you're
talking about the Romantic movement or Georgette Heyer's novels,
"Regency" and "Romance" go together. 

It's a time when passions and feelings and untamed nature are all
increasingly valued, or at least given lip service. But it comes on the
heels of a couple centuries of rationality and duty and family
obligation. And so a tension is coming to the fore, the tension between
marriage as a contract between two families, and marriage as an
expression of the love of two individuals.

The notion of love between individuals as the basis of marriage frees
marriage to be, mean, and do different things than it had heretofore.
Suddenly, people could seriously contemplate marrying well above (or
below) their station. They could imagine marrying without parental
consent. They could dream of marriage as a private and personal choice.
Not that all this was impossible before, or perfectly acceptable now,
but there was a social change underway.

So if love and marriage involves the *feelings of individuals*, how do
you incorporate that into your game?

First, with the explicit consent of all involved. You can't force a
player to have their character fall in love with another. But if you
talk about it, suggesting "Hey, I'd be really interested in exploring a
romance between these characters," you might get the buy-in you seek.
Keep checking in and communicating as you go.

Then, to explore these characters' feelings about each other, be sure to
have some chances for the characters to interact in relatively *normal*
situations, not fraught with family expectation, deadly smugglers, or
conniving fairies. And then, also, explore how these characters get
along in moments of extreme stress: with rivals, with misunderstandings,
with fairies.

In many romantic stories, the couple in question are destined for each
other. In an improvisational game like this, you have to be open to the
possibility that this could equally be a story of love found, love lost,
or love from beginning to end. Don't decide on an outcome and play to
it, play and see how it turns out.

Finally, consider the themes, tropes, and constraints of the genre:
heterosocial contact is limited, and homosexual love is prohibited.
Characters frequently deal with romance in the face of
misunderstandings, mistaken identities, secret engagements,
"understandings", cads, rakes, and conniving "friends".

To this I would like to add a caveat: if you have feelings for another
*player*, do not explore those feelings through your *characters*
without their full, explicit, and *informed* consent. Otherwise your
interactions could lead to very different things. I would repeat this
warning if you have, say, a desire for murderous revenge on another
player, too, but I think romantic feelings are much more likely.

The Comedy of Manners
=====================

.. todo:: Write about Comedy of Manners and Arcadia.

Sex, class, and privilege
=========================

.. todo:: Write about sex and class. Queens and Jacks are not
   unpeople, entirely constrained by the roles society expects them to
   fill.

.. [#] Though it is only "seeming"; all her characters have deep and
   urgent problems if you scratch beneath the surface.
