======
Spells
======

Of course, the main characters are also magicians. That means that they
will cast spells.

Magic is wild, natural, romantic, and English.

There are two great laws to magic: first, it cannot create something out
of nothing. Second, it cannot hold something inherently protean in
place. While you can change the shape of a fairy or the quality of an
emotion with magic, it will last but an instant, before it returns to
what it was.

Spells, arts and tiers
----------------------

Every spell is part of an art, and every spell is either the apprentice,
journeyman, or master expression of that art. Before you can learn the
master tier, you must learn the journeyman. Before you can learn the
journeyman, you must learn the apprentice. At the start of the game, you
should know two arts at the apprentice level.

For details on the arts and spells, see :ref:`appendix-Spells`.

Magical tools
-------------

To cast a spell requires the use of magical tools. There are fifty-two
magical tools available to English magicians, each with their own risks
and each with their own effects on the spell cast.

You may use any number of magical tools to cast a spell, but only a few
of them will have a material effect; the rest are *florilegia*,
ornaments to disguise the essence of the spell-casting. An apprentice
spell will require two tools, a journeyman three, and a master four.

Magical effects
---------------

Magical tools strengthen the spell in various ways. Each tool offers a
few effects, but when you cast a spell, you must choose which effect
you're aiming for.

The effects are:

 * Carefully: side-effects, costs, and unintended consequences will be
   minimized.
 * Cleverly: anyone who tries to understand, unwork, or extend the spell
   will have a more difficult time of it.
 * Impressively: anyone who sees the spell or its effects will be struck
   by the magician's power.
 * Powerfully: the spell will overcome barriers and obstacles easily.
 * Precisely: the spell will affect only what the magician intends.
 * Safely: the spell's costs will be minimized.
 * Subtly: anyone who works to detect or trace the spell will have a
   hard time of it.
 * Swiftly: the spell will go from notion to reality rapidly, and when
   done will vanish just as quickly.
 * Thoroughly: the spell will affect everything the magician intends it
   to.

Procedure
---------

Having selected a spell to cast from those you know, you should select
the two, three, or four magical tools you will use to cast the spell.
The Host will put down cards for those tools, and some related outcomes.
Always at least "magical corruption", and possibly one or two others,
like "uncover magical secrets" or "suffer an injury". If you are casting
a master-level spell, the Host will also choose an outcome from among
the masterwork spell outcomes: death magic, transgressive magic,
treacherous magic, ancient magic, harsh magic, feral magic.

Draw one card per tool and outcome in front of you, plus one because you
are a magician. If there is a fairy present, you can bargain away
anything you like for an additional one to three cards. Once you have
drawn all the cards you will, you may look at them, and assign them to
tools and outcomes.

For a tool, a face card means you get all the effect, and none of the
risk. A 6 to 10 means you get both the effect, and the risk. An ace to 5
means you get the risk, but not the effect (though you still have cast
the spell, and get the effect of the spell).

The Host will interpret the risks that have come to pass, and describe
the side-effects of casting the spell, and you and the Host will
describe together how the spell works.

Take all the cards you've assigned and remove them from the deck for the
remainder of the session. Shuffle the unassigned cards back in to the
deck.

An example
----------

Miss Bellamy intends to cast a spell. She hopes to sneak out at night to
the militia encampment, and get a sense of the soldiers' life, and maybe
come back with a prize. This is dangerous on so many fronts: she might
be found by her guardians, the sentries at the camp, or footpads on the
road at night. So she prepares by casting the apprentice spell of
Clarity, a spell to alert one of present danger.

As it is an apprentice spell, it requires two tools. She wishes to cast
it *precisely*, because there are so many dangers that a constant buzz
in her head warning her of danger is hardly useful, and *thoroughly*, as
she does not want anything to pass below its notice. She considers the
tools available to her, and settles on braids or knots, and rowan.

She begins the ritual at sundown, as it will last until sunup. She
retreats to her bedroom, having gathered some rowan twigs that
afternoon. She sings an ancient song her father taught her, and traps
the words in the braids she makes in her hair, winding them around the
rowan twigs. The result is less than fashionable, but as the intent is
to help her pass unnoticed, that shouldn't matter.

Now, there are two tools and one outcome to assign cards to: *braids*,
*rowan*, and *magical corruption*. The Host considers whether any other
outcomes are appropriate, and decides not. Miss Bellamy draws one card
per outcome and tool, plus one as she is a magician: Queen of hearts,
four of hearts, eight of diamonds, ten of spades.

She hesitates: any cards she uses will be removed from the deck for the
remainder of the session. So perhaps it's worth taking some blows for
the good of all? No. This is too important. She opts to put the Queen of
hearts on *rowan*, getting the effect *thoroughly* as she intended, the
ten of spades on *braids*, getting both a *precise* effect, and a risk
that the Host will interpret, and finally the eight of diamonds on
*magical corruption*: she will take a mark for the remainder of the
session.

The Host considers: when braids or knots go wrong, it can lead to any of
discord, entrapment, lies. "Entrapment" could be interesting: just
because she can tell when danger is coming and prepare, does not mean
that there will be a way out past that danger. That's it: "You feel the
tingling on your scalp that tells you when danger is near, and you veer
from it, but every step towards the encampment makes you feel that,
while you are not in danger, the labyrinthine path to avoid it gets more
tangled. By the time you can see the sentries, you know that there may
be no turning back safely."

Meanwhile, Miss Bellamy has also chosen a mark: "You develop a constant
sensation of being watched." Even once the spell has ended, the feeling
of impending doom will linger.
