=================
Starting the Game
=================

You've all just spent some time talking and brainstorming and hashing
out ideas, but not embodying characters and situations, and now it's
time to switch, and start the conversation not about *what has happened*
but *what happens*. The transition can be difficult, but it is not
impossible!

The first session
-----------------

The first session will usually lay the groundwork: you'll start to
explore the relationships between the main and supporting characters,
see who wants what from whom, how characters feel about each other, and
what stands in the way of the main characters' hopes and aspirations.

.. sidebar:: History panic

   When you play a game set in a historical period, it can be very easy
   to worry about historical accuracy. I hope I can help you past this
   worry!

   First: no one will judge your accuracy except the people you're
   playing with. So set expectations, together, at the ouset. Some folks
   at the table will be deeply interested in and knowledgable about the
   period, others will not be. The rule is, and must be: add or correct
   period detail only when it enriches, and when you have not already
   done so enough. Do not monopolize the conversation.

   Second: this is a game of Regency *fantasy*; while verisimilitude is
   desirable, accuracy is impossible. All of the Regency setting exists
   to contextualize and motivate the need for magic, and the magic
   exists to allow a way around the strictures of the time. If something
   is uncertain, make a guess and go with it. No one ever acted exactly
   according to the dictates of formal etiquette all the time, and if a
   character acts out-of-bounds, then this becomes a story about a time
   *someone did so*.

As the Host, you will create supporting characters as they are needed,
and make them push on the main characters in various ways. If a
character wants something, embody the reasons they can't get or do it.
Even if it's something like a servant wanting to study at Oxford, that
is, something all of society militates against, make a character who
laughs at them for their erudition, or who dangles the promise of going
up to Oxford accompanying their master in front of them, or similar.

Also make some characters to be the object of a desire: a character who
hopes to marry for love should find some characters loveable, but
unattainable. Perhaps the object of their potential love is below them,
or above them, or married, or of the same sex, or shrouded in suspicion.

You also want, in this first session, to highlight the various main
characters, and the core mechanics: use a good mixture of outcomes in
moments of uncertainty, and have at least one main character cast a
spell. This is a game with magic in it, after all! Don't let them forget
that.

The first scene
---------------

Lofty goals for the first session are fine and all, but what do you
*actually* start with?

First, take a breath. This is a transition, but it's not like
everything's riding on this moment. Everyone will play and collaborate
and it will be good. But you, as the Host, do have a particular
responsibility here.

There's a strange phenomenon, I find, where unless and until there are
obstacles in their way, the players may not pursue their characters'
goals. Once they know what forces are arrayed against them, or what
other pressing matters vie for their attention, they are more likely to
begin the pursuit. And so, as the Host, you may wish to start the game
with an urgent situation, an inciting incident, a "bang" as it were,
that drives the characters to *react*, and interferes with their ability
to start pursuing their goals.

You don't have to start with one perfect incident that will make or
break the game. You can throw out many possible hooks, as you explore
the characters and their daily lives, and see which the players latch on
to. Perhaps, though, this is a useful way to look at the problem: the
players have spent a bunch of time setting up a *status quo*, albeit
with tensions and uncertainties, but with a certain amount of
established norms. It is up to you as the host to start to upset that
*status quo* in ways that the players can understand as putting their
characters at risk.

Has a character been hiding in rural solitude from his creditors in
London? Perhaps a strange man with a staff and a blue jacket has been
seen poking around the village. Has a character been hoping to receive a
proposal from a well-to-do gentleman? Perhaps another house in the
village is let to a family with three wealthy and beautiful daughters.
Has a character been treating his vicarage as a sinecure, and neglecting
the parishioners? Perhaps a group of Methodists or Quakers show up,
providing an alternative and populist religious outlet. Has a character
been struggling to make ends meet, and keep a roof over their aged
parents? Perhaps the local landholder begins a process of enclosure,
denying people access to the common land.

Some more concrete examples of beginnings:

An option: "Mr. Reynolds, it is a fine spring day. Who are you walking
out to visit?" "Oh, uh, I think I might see how Miss Fanshaw is today."
(She is another main character.) "Ah, good. As you're walking to the
Fanshaw house, the vicar, your rival for her affections, Mr. Fyffe,
encounters you on the road. He seems to be going to the same place."

Suddenly, you have a scene: how does Mr. Reynolds manage a potential
rival, and the likely social awkwardness?

Another option: "Miss Netherwood, your parents are hosting a ball
tonight, in the hopes that you will return the affections of the odious
Mr. Grosvenor. Your lady's maid, Miss Jennings," (another main
character) "is helping you get ready."

And here, suddenly, is a chance to hatch a plan, and make clear how the
two characters feel about each other and Mr. Grosvenor.

You see the pattern? It's two characters with a relationship to a third,
in a situation intended to force some reaction to that relationship.
