.. _gm-rules:

GMing
=====

The GM controls the NPCs and provides adversity. It's their role to
reinforce the strictures of society, the dangers of magic, and the
difficulties of human connections.

The GM should write down what we know about NPCs on their index cards,
and particularly how they feel about the PCs and each other. This will
help them drive the action from the NPCs' point of view. Remember to
think about and communicate what will happen if the PCs don't act.

NPCs also get starting social role tokens (from 3 to 5) based on their
rank.

In a conflict, an emotional outburst puts a PC's reputation at risk. If
they never make an outburst, they stand a real chance of not getting
what they want. So, outbursts are saying "this is worth the risk". And
if it never is worth the risk for someone, *push harder*. Loveless
marriages, disownment and penury, abusive masters, all this and more are
real risks. Think about what will happen if the PCs don't intervene for
their own interests, and push for that.

*Yes this is a vicious cycle.* If you damage your reputation, getting
more role tokens becomes harder, and thus you are more likely to have to
risk your reputation in future.

The PCs are showing you at every moment what they most fear losing or
happening. Use that. Push at them. Make their world unstable, pulling
apart at the seams. There is no stable *status quo* in Regency World!

Now, the fairy offers absolution, victory, revenge, power. But it is a
cat playing with mice, a child playing with dolls. It has no real
conception of your wants, only how you can amuse it. It half-listens,
then give you the rope to hang yourself.

The fairy should show up soon, but not immediately; basically as soon as
someone's been pushed into a spot where they might need a spell to get
what they want. Basically, the arc of an *Arcadia* story should dip low
quickly, then up-tick with the fairy's intervention, then wobble.

Desperation
-----------

Let's be clear: you have to be desperate to make a deal with a fairy.
Everyone, but *everyone*, knows better. But sometimes, you see no other
choice---or rather, the other choice is *worse*.

When you have one kind of power in a world that strips you of power, you
will use it, you will exercise it, you will rely on it. If that is being
trusted with secrets, you will wield secrets as a weapon. If you have
sexual appeal, you will wield sexuality as a weapon. If you have no
further to fall but to a sinful and unmourned grave, you will wield
recklessness as a weapon.

Not every character will be desperate! But at least one or two must be.
And those are the ones to whom the fairy offers their fondest dreams.

Perils of the Period
--------------------

It is easy to think of the worst that could happen in *Arcadia* as
somewhat gentle, but death, dishonour, disappointment, disease, and
poverty aren't even the worst of it. When you bargain with a fairy, you
risk your very soul and future---or that of those closest and dearest to
you.

As the GM, you should have some idea of what the worst thing facing each
character is, and you should communicate it, too. Some characters may
live a hair's breadth away from starvation, while others may sometimes
risk only their reputation, but the mightiest, it is said, have the
furthest to fall.

Don't be coy about it, either: make sure that the players understand
what they risk. But also, make sure that they know what they are hoping
to achieve: a stable position serving in a great house may be a lofty
goal for some, and a peerage and a wealthy marriage may be within reach
of others.

Knowing what's at stake will help you with every other part of the
system, in particular offering bargains as a fairy.

Fairy stories
-------------

So, this is a game about people who gain the notice of a fairy. That is,
it is a game of fairy stories. You might be forgiven for asking why. To
my mind, fairy stories are stories that warn against easy answers and
simplistic understanding. They remind us of the complexities of the
situations we can find ourselves in. Wishing and hoping and having a
fairy "fix" things for you rarely turns out well, no matter how valid
your wishes and hopes may be. That is to say: fairy stories are about
the value of *doing the work* and the risks of trying to take
short-cuts.

How, then, do you do that in this game? Especially given that everyone
knows better than to trust what a fairy says, how do you make the
temptation real?

There are two parts, ultimately: the carrot and the stick. The stick is
obvious: for all but the most privileged, life in Regency England is a
collection of restraints and constraints, disappointments and
compromises. The carrot is this: the fairy must offer real fixes for
small problems, so that when they offer dangerous and broken fixes for
larger problems, they have a trustworthy track record to back them up.
They are not a constant exercise in deception and punishment. They are a
pusher, offering what you want now, such that when you *need* them, they
can demand more than you can pay.

Techniques and Tools
--------------------

**Acting is Reacting:** keep the camera on the listener, not the
speaker. Show their reactions.

**Breathing Space:** not every scene should involve "that won't be so
easy". Scenes like that tend to be dramatic up-beats, where the
character faces the things that make their story interesting and their
life difficult. After, allow them a scene of downtime, showcasing their
passions or their social role. Then cut to another character and focus
on their story a little.

**Let them be human:** the social norms of the period are real and
present, but even in Austen's work, you sometimes see people breaking
these norms without remark. Humans are humans and every supposed rule of
a society has occasional exceptions. Sometimes first names are used,
sometimes servants aren't woken in the middle of the night.

**Understatement:** you can achieve a feeling of magical realism by
maintaining understatement, a calm matter-of-fact aspect to describing
magic. To paraphrase Mark Twain, do not "glance around from face to
face, collecting applause". This is what Gabriel García Márquez
describes as speaking "with a brick face". You are simply observing
these wondrous things, but not being awed by them. Conversely, if you
want the game to feel more like a Gothic novel, do just the opposite:
make it clear how overcome you are by what you are describing.

**Elide the small-talk:** It's easy to think of empty small-talk as a
staple of the Austenian genre, but you'll notice that, with the notable
exception of *Emma*, where it serves a particular purpose, small-talk is
usually quoted only indirectly: "they talked of the weather" rather than
a blow-by-blow direct quotation. You can do that too. "After
pleasantries are exchanged, Col. Colquhoun gets to his purpose, and asks
you if you have heard the news from Hastings, that Miss Redgrave is
apparently becoming very close with a Mr. Hawkins. He's trying to get a
reaction out of you. He wants to know if you have feelings for her."

**Play to make them reveal themselves:** As the GM, you are most
interested in the inner lives of the characters you see at the table.
Not in their victories or failures, *per se*, but in how those victories
and failures let them show their true colors.

.. _threats:

Threats
-------

Sometimes, threats will loom on the horizon. There is one threat that is
always in play: the Fairy. Otherwise, create them as needed.

You will want to keep track of threats as they approach. A convenient
way to do this is with an index card. Write the name of the threat, and
make a number of boxes or segments to fill in. As the threat approaches,
fill in segments.

How many segments should a threat have, and how many should you fill in
at a time? This is largely a matter of judgment. An urgent threat might
have four segments, a pressing one six, and a distant one eight. When
something goes wrong, mark one segment, unless it has gone disastrously
wrong, then mark two. They are very much like reputations on characters'
social roles.

It is really up to the GM to keep these cards in sync with the story,
though, and you may sometimes find that you have not kept up, and may
need to mark some more segments. And sometimes, rarely, the characters'
actions may even push a threat further away, and you might erase a
segment.

Sometimes social missteps, awkward interactions, or snubs might cause
you to mark segments. Sometimes, simple neglect of the problem might.
Use your judgment, but remember to keep your principles in mind: you are
not here to punish the characters, but you are here to keep the world
verisimilitudinous and to keep the characters' lives complex and
compelling.

(I will also sometimes use spare tokens, instead of segments, removing
them as I count down to the threat's realization, but this is harder for
keeping track across sessions.)

The Fairy
~~~~~~~~~

.. todo::
   -  The fairy is a countdown clock. They get more powerful the more
      you use magic, or past a certain point, the more you fail to keep
      them at bay.
   -  Any time you use magic on someone, they are now marked, and the
      fairy can interfere with them and their lives. All PCs start
      marked.

Penury
~~~~~~

In the words of Mr. Micawber:

   Annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure nineteen nineteen
   six, result happiness. Annual income twenty pounds, annual
   expenditure twenty pounds nought and six, result misery.

When a character cannot afford the costs of their life, they approach
*penury*. When this threat comes to pass, their lifestyle falls apart:
without magical interference, they will be unable to pay for food and
shelter, and may become a vagabond, or find themselves detained and
thrown in the workhouse; you may bring Arrest into play. Vagrancy and
penury are, of course, criminalized in this time and place.

If you choose, you can avoid penury through bringing Debt into play.

Debt
~~~~

Legally, there are two kinds of debt: a debt created through a legal
instrument, such as a loan; and a debt incurred through gambling, or
other activity outside the bounds of the law. The former are very
binding, and can land a delinquent debtor in debtor's prison. The latter
are not *actually* legally enforceable, and are called "debts of honour"
as a result. However, *de facto*, sufficient debts of honour can easily
lead to legally enforceable debt and debtor's prison.

A character who is in Debt has exhausted their lines of credit, and may
be very hard up indeed.

Once this threat is realized, bring Arrest into play. You may also, if
appropriate, bring in Shunning.

Arrest
~~~~~~

As this threat comes to bear, the magistrates and bailiffs close in
their pursuit of the character in question. Once it is in play, the
character is imprisoned. Our modern conceptions of prisoners' rights
very much do not apply. Depending on the prison and the conditions,
perhaps bring Disease into play.

Shunning
~~~~~~~~

The first time a character marks all three bad reputations, bring this
threat directly into play. You can also bring it directly into play when
something particularly damning comes to light about a character.

A shunned character is avoided, snubbed, cut, and excluded at every
turn.

Disease
~~~~~~~

Bring this in to play when a character has been exposed to unwholesome
conditions, such as in prison, or wandering the moors in inclement
weather, or exposure to strange things in Arcadia.

When a character succumbs to Disease, treat it as a :ref:`duel
<dueling>` between them and the disease.

Corruption
~~~~~~~~~~

.. todo:: Write corruption threat. Relates to soul-damage?

Of the magical kind.
