========
The Host
========

.. todo:: Edit the Host section.

As the Host, you have some particular duties and particular rules to
follow. Your role is in some ways more difficult, and in some ways
easier than everyone else's.

.. todo:: Maybe it should default to "hostess"? I lose the Fairy Host
   pun, but there's a good argument to default that way. Almack's, even.

Note also that although I use the term "Host" throughout, that should be
be construed to omit the possibility of a *hostess*, or any other
variation.

Agenda
------

First, while the other players are playing to faithfully and
compellingly portray and inhabit their characters, you have a slightly
different agenda:

Make the world seem real
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

That means *verisimilitudinous*, and that means that supporting
characters should act with some sort of consistent psychological
reality, and socially damaging actions should have repercussions and
supporting characters should pursue their own agendas even when not on
stage.

Make magic seem rooted in the world
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Magic is a force with a will. It is an ancient and inscrutable and
enormous thing. But it is a thing that is, ultimately, of this world. It
is the way the world expresses itself, and some humans have just found a
way to converse with it. It is the trees and the rivers, the rain and
the hills. It is not abstract, scientific, mechanical.

Make the characters' lives worthy of the telling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This isn't, and shouldn't be, a story about people defeating Napoleon on
the battlefield, but the characters' lives should be interesting for
their own sake. If you would put down this book, then step back a moment
and try to see how things could be more interesting. Then push in that
direction.

Remember that nothing is written
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Don't plan what will happen before it does. It can be tempting to take
your position of responsibility and power and use it to write and
execute on a plan. Don't do that. You are creating the story in the
moment as much as the other players.

This doesn't mean that you shouldn't think about, talk about, write
about the game between sessions, or come in with no plans or ideas.
Rather, those plans and ideas should be loosely held, and should be
about what is happening off-stage rather than what *will* come to pass.

Push supporting characters' plans, ideas, and agendas on the main characters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The supporting characters are your main tool for shaping the main
characters lives, and pushing them into untenable situations where they
will have to make hard and interesting choices. This is a time and place
defined by mutual obligation, and the main characters are not exempt
from this simply because they wield magic. Every supporting character
will have plans for them, and it is up to you to push those plans.

Principles concerning the world
-------------------------------

As you pursue this agenda, you are constrained by certain principles.
There are principles about the world at large, and about magic in
particular.

 * Show how the world is unjust.
 * Show how everyone is obligated and bound.
 * Remember that disaster lurks around the corner.
 * Make consequences real: relationships break, people die, fortunes are lost.
 * Be a fan, not just a threat.
 * Never worry about historical detail; as long as you all agree to it, it's so.
 * Show what will happen if the main characters do not act.

Principles concerning magic
---------------------------

The principles concerning magic are fewer, but vital. Magic should veer
towards the sublime, something slow and deep, not quick and flashy.
Achieving this is an art, and every Host will find their own preferred
style, but describing magic in matter-of-fact terms is a very helpful
approach.

 * Let magic show up in the corner of your eye.
 * Let magic seem as though it's always been there.
 * Make magic have a will of its own.
 * Make magic be old, feral, and of the land.

Supporting characters
---------------------

Your single most effective tool for enacting your agenda are the
supporting characters. They let you embody and enact all of the things
you must try to do.

However, it can be hard to play many supporting characters and keep them
all straight! What follows are some tools to make that easier.

Names and roles
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As soon as a supporting character is introduced, write down their name
and role. I like to use an index card for related supporting characters,
but you could use one card per character, or a single sheet of paper, or
whatever works for you.

The name and role can be something like "Mr. Ashbrook, the butler" or
"Miss Cavendish, a lady of quality" or "Captain Fitzroy, a naval man" or
"Alice, a chambermaid".

Manners
~~~~~~~

After this, note down one or two descriptors: "cunning and quiet", "kind
and brash", "vapid and money-conscious", "dashing and mysterious". This
will help you remember how to portray that character, as while playing
you'll be asked to switch context very often, and no one wants all the
supporting characters blending into each other.

It may seem counter-intuitive, but don't try to make their character
deeper than a note or two for now. Only once the players express
interest in a character and get to know them more should you make them
deeper and more complex. At the best, you would have wasted effort on a
character who never shows up in more than a bit part, and at the worst,
you'd make a character who's strikingly inappropriate for where the game
ends up going.

Motivations
~~~~~~~~~~~

Once it becomes clear, or if you introduced them with a motivation in
mind, add that to the notes you have for them. This is the thing that
character is pushing for, probably in relation to a main character.
Something like "Wants status (marry Mr. Stanhope?)", "Wants money
(attach himself to Miss de Vere)", "Wants a feeling of power (command
Jack Kelly)", or "Wants to get away from her mother (run off with Mr.
Pryce?)".

Fairies and goblins
-------------------

Fairies and goblins are much like other supporting characters, except
they exist outside the bounds of society. The sorts of things they want
are therefore very different.

Goblins usually want simple, single, horrific things. To see a love
broken, to see someone murdered, to hear the cries of a lost and lonely
child, to see good wheat rotting in the field.

Fairies, though, all at root share an esoteric desire: to possess and
steal away magicians. There are stories of magicians with fairy
assistants back in the golden age of magic, but these magicians, even
when they understood quite well what they were doing, walked a razor's
edge. The reasons a fairy might want to possess magicians might vary: as
noble champions, as trusted confidants, as passionate lovers, as scorned
jesters. But whatever the reasons, fairies will try to ensnare magicians
and take them to their realm.

Save fairies for late in the game, or when a magician invokes one. Once
a fairy is introduced, it becomes *the* fairy, and you should take a
moment to envision it. You can find many suggestions in
:ref:`appendix-Fairies and goblins`, and feel free to use them verbatim,
or to create your own.

Certain outcomes will say that the fairy gains a "strand" on a magician.
This is how they steal magicians, and represents a bit of obligation and
control that the fairy has over the magician. Once a fairy has four
strands on a magician, they may steal them away to their fairy realm at
their pleasure. No one has escaped from fairyland under their own power,
but there are stories of magicians rescuing their loved ones from fairy,
so perhaps this is possible.
