Weather
=======

Weather controls day to day life. Rain and sun each in their turn make
the crops grow, and snows and floods can close roads and put one in a
position to overstay one's welcome. However much the English may
complain about their weather, it wouldn't be England without it.

Each season has its own particular character. Something something this
is not about modern England, but England coming out of the Little Ice
Age.

The year, legally speaking, starts in the middle of winter, but socially
and spiritually, the year starts and ends on *Lady Day*, near the end of
March. This is the first of the Quarter Days, and a traditional day for
marking the end or beginning of contracts of service.

This is the beginning of spring. Spring is marked by mild and gradually
warming days, with storms early on, moving to clearer weather later.
There are occasional floods as the spring rains make the rivers and
creeks overflow.

In the middle of spring is *May Day*. This is marked by dancing,
maypoles, and the crowning of a May Queen.

Then comes summer. It starts with *Midsummer*, marked with feasts,
dancing, and bonfires. An English summer is warm, but rarely hot. There
is occasional rain, of course, but generally the weather is clear and
golden.

As summer comes to a close, there is the harvest festival of Lammas,
when, by tradition, tenant farmers' rents are due. Between Midsummer and
Lammas is the hay-making. All the Quarter Days and Cross-Quarter Days
are liminal, but Lammas is among the times when the boundaries between
worlds are thinnest; only All Hallow's is thinner.

Autumn proper starts with Michaelmas. This is the start of the academic
year, when students come up once more to Oxford or Cambridge. It is a
time of settling in and feathering nests, preparing for the winter that
will come.

Autumn weather is marked by the return of storms, and more frequent rain
in general. The nights get colder and longer, and dew turns to frost in
the mornings.

In the depths of autumn, the Cross-Quarter Day is All Hallow's. As the
year passes into winter, so the boundaries between the world of the
living and the world of the dead thin.

Winter starts with Christmas, though to be honest, it has already been
ongoing by Christmas. The Christmas of Regency England was not the
Christmas we know; that was a later invention. The Christmas tree was
not yet present, nor was any particular tradition of gift-giving.
Instead, people feast with friends and family and stay in when the
weather is bad (which it usually is), and may, if they have the means,
make a point of charity towards the poor. Some people, those who keep
alive some old traditions, burn a Yule log and hang mistletoe, but most
do not.

Winter is marked by cutting cold weather, and snowy days punctuated by
sharp, clear, bright days. As it comes in and goes out, it becomes grey
and muddy.

In the middle of winter, in early February, comes Candlemas, the last
Cross-Quarter Day. This is a celebration of light in the darkness of
winter, and a celebration of the Virgin Mary. It is very much a church
holiday.

But it is not just a church holiday. In fact, all of the Quarter and
Cross-Quarter days are intertwined and infused with older holidays, holy
days that the fairies of Arcadia might still recognize. These holy days
are a mixture of the Germanic and Celtic traditions that defined the
early history of England.

Lady Day is also Ēastre, the feast of the Anglo-Saxon goddess of
fertility and light. May Day is also Lá Bealtaine, the feast of the
warding bonfires. Midsummer itself remains largely unchanged since
ancient days. Lammas is Lúnasa, a feast to Lú Ildánach, the many-skilled
warrior god. Michaelmas is the bounteous harvest festival at the autumn
equinox with no name. All Hallow's is Samhain (pronounced like "sound"
without the "d"), when the souls of the dead, and the fairies, could
pass into this world without trouble. Christmas is Yule, a holy period
celebrated with mead, ale, poetry, and light. Finally, Candlemas is
Imbolg, the feast of the goddess Bríg, the poet, healer, and smith, and
a night of powerful prophesy.

On any given day in the game, if you are unsure what the weather should
be, draw a card. The lower the value, the colder (within the bounds of
the season), and the higher, the warmer. If the card is black, there is
rain or snow. If red, sun.

It is worth noting here that the year 1816 was notable in Europe for
having no summer. The eruption the previous year of Mt. Tambora in what
is now Indonesia caused climate shifts that led to lower temperatures,
cloud cover, and rain through the summer in western Europe. This in turn
led to massive crop failures and the worst famine in Europe in the
century.
