---
layout: page
---

# Et in Arcadia Ego as Monsterhearts

* TOC
{:toc}

## The Playbooks

### King of Swords: Gentleman (♂)

### King of Cups: Officer (♂)

### King of Wands: Clergyman (♂)

### King of Coins: Dandy (♂)

### Queen of Swords: Lady (♀)

### Queen of Cups: Governess (♀)

### Queen of Wands: Ward (♀)

### Queen of Coins: Spinster (♀)

### Jack of Swords: Invalid (⚲)

### Jack of Cups: Magician (⚲)

### Jack of Wands: Servant (⚲)

### Jack of Coins: Vagabond (⚲)

## The Basic Moves and Strings

### Flirt

When you flirt with someone, roll with Sanguine. On a 10 up, gain a String on
them and also they choose a reaction from below. On a 7-9, gain a String on
them unless they choose a reaction from below.

  - I give myself to you,
  - I promise something I think you want,
  - I get embarrassed and act awkward.

You may spend social capital on this roll.

### Shut someone down

When you shut someone down, roll with Choleric. On a 10 up, choose one from
below. On a 7-9, choose one from below, but you leave a sour impression and so
they mark a Reputation of yours in return.

  - They lose a String on you,
  - They mark a Reputation,
  - You carry 1 forward to act against them.

You may spend social capital on this roll.

### Keep your cool

When you keep your cool in a scary or tense situation, roll with Phlegmatic. On
a 10 up, you gain insight and initiative: ask the MC a question and take 1
forward to acting on that information. On a 7-9, whoever you're dealing with
chooses one:

  - you go unnoticed or underestimated,
  - you seem confident and imposing.

### Gaze into the Abyss

When you gaze into the abyss, name what you're looking for and roll with
Melancholic. On a 10 up, the abyss shows you lucid visions, and you carry one
forward to addressing them. On a 7-9, the abyss shows you confusing and
alarming visions, but you get your answer nonetheless.

### Pull Strings

Strings are a combination of social power over someone, and a willingness to
use that power.

When you spend a String on someone, say how you're taking advantage of some
leverage over them and choose one:

  - Make them mark a Reputation if they don't do what you want,
  - Add 1 to your roll against them,
  - For an NPC only: ask the MC what sort of bribe, threat, or coaxing it'll
    take to get that character to do what you want right now.

### Pull Rank

Roll with Choleric

You may spend social capital on this roll.

### Spread Rumours

Roll with Sanguine

You may spend social capital on this roll.

### Confide

Roll with Melancholic

### First impressions

When you first meet another character, roll with Sanguine. On a hit, take a
String with them. On a 10+, also take +1 forward in the rest of the scene. On a
miss, you have somehow made a misstep or offended them.

You may spend social capital on this roll.

## Social Capital and Reputations

At the end of any scene, go around the table. Each player should ask the table
whether they engaged in any of their social cues. If the table agrees that they
engaged in at least one cue, that character gains a point of social capital.

Social capital can be spent to bolster certain rolls. You may spend up to two
points, for +1 to the roll per point. You must spend this _before_ you roll.

However, a character's very life depends on their good reputation. Without it,
the small community will close its ranks against them.

When a character must _mark a Reputation_, fill in one of the boxes next to one
of their three social cues, whichever is most appropriate for the moment in the
story. When all three boxes are filled in on one social cue, cross out that cue
and write circle the associated bad reputation. Your character can no longer
gain social capital from that cue, and have gained the bad reputation far and
wide.

If you have it available, you may spend two social capital instead of marking a
Reputation.

If a character has a bad reputation, any other character exploiting that
reputation in a roll against or about that character gets +1 to their roll.

## XP and Advancement

When you make your character, you have a list of Relationships. Four of them
will start off with names filled in, either of other PCs or NPCs. When you make
a move that engages one of those characters, put a mark by their name if there
is not one already. When you have four marks, erase them all and take an
advance.

You may eventually have more than four names listed among your Relationships.
You still take an advance and erase all marks as soon as four are marked.
Having more than four just gives you more flexibility about who you can
interact with for XP.

## Peripheral Moves

### Taking harm

When you endure grave harm, roll. On 10+ pick two, on 7-9 pick one:

  - it will get better on its own (otherwise you will need assistance),
  - it doesn't leave a permanent mark (otherwise take a scar),
  - it gives you purpose (gain two Strings on whomever you consider
    responsible).

On a miss it’s fatal, beyond help and the MC will say how and when.

Grave harm is anything potentially fatal to a human being like weapon injuries,
traumatic wounds, serious burns, prolonged starvation, deadly disease, extreme
cold or similar.

### Journeying

### Making art

### Dueling

## Spells

### To break a magical ward

### To create a magical ward

### To find someone or something by magic

### To predict the future

### To speak with the recently dead

### To transform a living being

### To transmute materials

### To travel to a place by magic

## The MC

### Agenda

  - Make each main character’s life not boring.
  - Keep the story wild.
  - Say what the rules demand.
  - Say what honesty demands.

### Principles

  - Embrace melodrama.
  - Ask provocative questions and build on the answers.
  - Address yourself to the characters, not the players.
  - Make class distinctions real.
  - Give everyone a messy life.
  - Find the catch.
  - Give side characters simple, divisive motivations.
  - Treat your characters roughly.
  - Be a fan of the PCs.
  - Sometimes, disclaim decision making.

### Moves

  - Put them together.
  - Separate them.
  - Make them pay a price.
  - Leap to the worst possible conclusion.
  - Mark Reputations (as established).
  - Announce drastic measures.
  - Turn their move back on them.
  - Expose a dangerous secret to the wrong person.
  - Take a String on someone.
  - Herald the abyss.
  - At every turn: “What do you do?”

## Threats: the Fairy

## Thanks and Ludography
