# THIS IS A _SAGAS OF THE ICELANDERS_ HACK.

The major addition is the social token economy. And magic?

## Playbooks

Playbooks per the 12 in [Arcadia](arcadia.md).

Playbooks all have:

  - A social role with three status token triggers and things you can spend
    tokens on. Basically, "help yourself".
  - A selection of motivations, which define conditions for gaining XP. NO
    PASSION TOKENS.
  - Five stats:
      - Able
      - Ardent
      - Gracious
      - Subtle
      - Touched
  - Playbook moves
  - Advancement tracks

## Common Moves

Tweak relationships and XP; they should still interrelate, but also personal
goals need to relate to XP.

Basic moves:

  - When you command, +Able
  - When you insult, +Ardent
  - When you ingratiate, +Gracious
  - When you look into someone's heart, +Subtle
      - Great candidate for screwing with per-playbook.
  - When you look inward, +Touched

Peripheral moves:

  - When make a first impression, +Gracious
  - When you beg someone, +Gracious
  - When you create art, +Ardent
  - When you undertake a physical challenge, +Able
  - When you undertake something surreptitious, +Subtle

Magical moves, maybe more on the Touched end?

## Gendered moves

Maybe not as much emphasis on this?

The women's moves will need a lot of changes.

The men's moves are OKish for now.

## MC Moves

  - Display greed and hunger 
  - Display heedless lust
  - Display jealousy and resentment
  - Display royal arrogance 
  - Make honour and shame real
  - Make or take promises
  - Offer them success at a dear cost (this can include status tokens)
  - Put them in debt to their enemies
  - Put them in their place
  - Show the howling storm on the horizon
  - Turn a move back on them
  - Uncover secrets
